URL: https://youtu.be/G5Det1W11tM
TITLE: Ep 398: Solana Validator Economics - Key Drivers and Parallels to Xandeum's pNode System
================================================================================

Hey, hey, hey, hey guys. Blockchain Bernie here. Episode 400. Big bold question. Big bold question. Can Solana the soul price rise to $2,000 in this cycle? Yes or no? And that's a that's an important question. Many of us think like, should I enter Salana now? We've seen the bull run, right? others, you know, are sitting on on gains and thinking like, should I sell now? Should I get more? Um, and you know, in this video, you walk out here, you walk away from this video and you'll know exactly what are the bullish drivers for the soul price for the rest of this cycle and what are the caution points and there are there are caution points and they're important to understand. So yeah, you you'll walk away from this video with knowing exactly what these points are. Um but let's dive uh right into it. So Salana already had a a bull run um in the past few weeks, right? and it was testing the all-time high like the $250 mark a couple of times, but then it went back below um below $200. And right now it's at at the recording of this video at around $211 and something and it's about a $115 billion market cap of the Soul token, right? So, and and that's one of the caution points that I'll get back to uh later in this little video. But now, you know, let's start with what would speak for Salana hitting 2000. What have been the drivers of the past rallies, right? So, let's dive into that. And there are a few factors that speak for for further momentum in the salt price. And the first one I want to mention that is the Alpenlow upgrade. Right? So Alpenlow, it's a little bit like a like like a weird word. It's like a German English fusion. It's um you know, it's about the Alps and and a special weather event there when they glow. And that is a very very technical upgrade, right? Even though the name Alpenlow doesn't sound that technical, but it's a lot. It's a lot of things happening in the consensus mechanism and guess what the proof of history which was the main innovation on Salana and and even Anatoli Yakov Weno he filed a patent for it. you still find that patent um online now for the proof of history and I think they later decided to get anything everything into the foundation and just get rid of the patent application and instead release everything under Apache 2.0 O which is not only a permissive license but it also includes a patent grant right so that means all the patents that Salana might have gotten or not we don't know they are voluntarily being released to the public with that um Apache 2.0 release, right? So, but that that proof of history, it's going to become history because they have Alpenlow, right? And Alpenlow will do away with proof of history and for one big goal to shorten the time to finality, right? So, Salana is already one of the fastest blockchains out there, right? the transactions per second and everything is like is like crazy fast. But there is that concept of finality. Finality means a transaction cannot be revoked under no circumstances. And why is that important? It's important to settle trades. It's important to settle payments, right? We want to know, okay, yep, it's paid and boom, deal is done, right? We need finality. And that that could take like you know 20 30 seconds or so on Salana and and with Alpenlow that goes to 100 to 150 milliseconds and then we're final and you know maybe that's also driven by a few other chains like uh competitor chains that have short time to finality and and time to finality is is important right and with Alpenlow we go to 100 to 50 milliseconds. So that makes it rival like traditional finance exchanges, right? And that was Anatoli's original idea, blockchain at the speed of NASDAQ. That was the title of his pitch deck for his venture capital um back in the beginning. So with the Alpenlow upgrade, it's out there. It's being voted on right now for the val from the validators and we have 98% agreement, right? That's different from the other proposals that were out there that were kind of controversial, right? Alpenlow was not controversial. So, that's awesome. And all the big players and big names that are out there in Salana in the validator community, they all voted for it. I voted for it with my Xandium validator. Um, so that's awesome. And Alpen Glow, if it comes, it's going to be a big driver, right? because suddenly you know the the Solana becomes even more suitable for new use cases in the trading and DeFi field in NFTTS and app adoption and everything. So that's number one. What's the next bullish factor? But before I dive into the other bullish factors and also the caveats and the and the caution points, um please if you haven't done so already, consider giving me that like button here. It's a small ask that I have like this video if you haven't already done so. Also, subscribe to my channel and leave me a comment right down below. Okay, so the next bullish point is tokenized equity. So what does that mean? It there's also a buzzword out there that's called ICM, internet capital markets. So that means all the capital markets with stock trading they are moving to the internet and specifically to the blockchain and Salana is a first here right we recently have Galaxy is launching their shares their equity shares you know SEC registered stock it's issued natively onchain can you believe that it's not like a token that tracks a stock or a token where stocks is being deposited or something to make it one for one. No, the SEC, the Security Exchange Commission of the United States of America. They have allowed Galaxy to issue their stock not in the form of a stock certificate on paper as we had before and then later on it was like stock in the systems of the banks and brokerage broker dealer organizations like like your Robin Hood or or or interactive brokers or whoever you're with or Weeull or something. No, they issued the stock of that stock corporation natively on chain guys. That is history being written right now, right? And it happened right on Salano. And I know that ICM, Internet Capital Markets, that's a big big priority for everyone on Solano, right? So that can be a big big driver in the next few years that will drive up the salt price, right? It's a huge huge milestone. All right. Then we have a surge in open interest, right? So 13 billion in futures open interest and that's the highest ever. So we see a lot of demand for the for the Saul token. We have high trading volumes again. Um, so those are all bullish signs for the sell price and and we've seen so many 10xes and the big question is can it 10x again? Can it go from 200 to 2000? Can it go from $110 billion dollar market cap to 1.1 trillion? That's a big question. And we we discussed the bullish drivers now. But you know, I promised you uh you walk away from this video with knowing the pros and the cons. So, let's look at the uh the caution points, right? Let's do a market cap reality check, right? If we really think about what's going on here. Um so, let's look into um Salana here. You see Salana here and it's at about $211 and it's a $114 billion market cap here, right? So if you think about $114 billion, that is more than the market cap of General Motors and Ford combined, right? So we're under a 100red if you just add General Motors and Ford. They're both around 50 billion, right? We're we're we're above we're 20 we're we're like 15% above the market cap of Starbucks, which is around like 99 billion right now, right? So, these are kind of grownup companies that have conquered the world and everyone knows them all over the world. Everyone has heard of Starbucks. Everyone has heard of General Motors and Ford. Not everyone has heard of Salana, but they are there already with $115 billion market cap. So that is a question like can they really go to 1.1 trillion? Can they go to like the likes of a Tesla, right? That is the big question. And some say, "Oh, yeah, sure they can." And yeah, but I think they'd have to to get a lot of more adoption until then. Do we we really need to break through to mainstream adoption? And my personal opinion is if it's only for trading and Salana is focusing so much on speed and on on on trading um DeFi and stuff like that. I'm not sure, you know. Let's see where is where is interactive brokers actually one of the largest brokers which we can compare with the goals of of Salana right let's see where they are with their market cap we have interactive brokers group here and um and their market cap is at 108 billion and it's already blown up it's like an over 30 uh forward profit and PE ratio right forward PE here um price earnings ratio is 33.66. So they are quite high just because they recently got added to the standard and pores 500 index which means um that gave them a boost here right and Salana is already more than that. So that is a caveat, right? We we need to see can they really 10x from here if they stay in that trading thing, right? And and that's what I see on Salana everywhere. Everyone talks about how can we compete with traditional finance with NASDAQ and stuff like that. How can we be faster? But that's a narrow that's a narrow field. Interactive Brokers has 100 billion in market cap, right? General Motors and Ford together have 100 billion. Starbucks has 100 billion. So I firmly believe Salana can grow another 10x but they have to be broader. They have to conquer more things rather than just trading. And the sad thing is if we focus just on trading, there's competition. There is hyperlquid. And guys look into hyperlquid. they are real competition to Salana in trading right in DeFi and um even look into things like Sollayer or something right they are not alone Salana is not alone right um but there is there is more things to do on the blockchain rather than just trading tokens or trading stocks or stuff like that right there is the original idea of web 3 that requires storage on chain and of course that's my own project here my own little baby Zandium which is building the scalable storage layer the scalable file system on Salana and you know Xandium is building on Salana for good reasons but I feel like only if Salana will you know position itself a little bit more broad right not only doing trading but doing web 3 and if Xandandy Indium becomes a success that will also boo that will boost both tokens. It will boost boost the Xand token XD which you can buy on Jupiter uh if you're interested and it will boost the salt price as well, right? But if Salana stays in only that narrow trading thing, it might go another 10x. But I wouldn't bet my farm on it, you know? I wouldn't bet my house on that. So, but if they can go broad and if Zandium becomes a success and obviously small caps like the Xandium token, right, with like two figure million market caps, they're way more likely to 10x or 100x or even a,000x than Salana that's already at 114 billion, right? So, keep that in mind. Um, yeah. So, that's the market cap reality. um um competition is rising. I talked about hyperlquid a sole layer many L1 L2 new entrance salt isn't alone and um and you know right now they are only focusing on reduce latency increase bandwidth in other words make it the fastest blockchain to compete with traditional finance that's good you know it's not a it's not a it's not not a problem in itself but it's narrow it it it's a focus on one thing it's It's like a T-shaped thing, right? Like that you have the if you look at the letter T, you know, you're you're you're mediocre at all these things and then the T goes down here that that that uh you know, stroke of the T and and you're very very good and go very very deep in one little area and then you go back up and that's it, right? and and yeah so so I think Salana badly needs something that makes it suitable for web 3 and for other apps other than just trading right and even for trading and DeFi at some point we need storage people need need lending platforms where you can upload your your credit report or you can upload your your your deed of your house and prove that you own it and stuff like that right So yeah, that's what I think. So um yeah and and again small caps are are are more likely to 10x 100x a 1000x I you know um for for sol to 1000x um that's kind of unlikely uh I believe for a lot of smaller caps and it seems like alt season is beginning right everyone expecting alt season and there has been tremendous interest in altcoins uh just recently, right? And if you own the the right smaller ones and of course I'd love you know no financial advice and you know I'm involved in in Xandium myself but I also believe in Xandium right and um I you know I I think a 1000x is is possible for that in the next 2 three four years right um and and at least way more likely than for mega caps that are already huge. All right. So, now that we've dived into all these things, I have a final question for you and a final request for you. And it's um just liking this video. No, I'm just kidding. You should that you should do that. Uh anyway, of course, uh uh like and subscribe. But I have um I have another request for you. just I'm honestly interested in what is your opinion. Do you think $2,000 of soul price is possible this cycle or rather not? And why? So, just let me know. If you just say yes or no, I'm super happy, right? I would I would want to know, do you think 2000 is possible this cycle or no for soul? Let me know in the comments. But if you can explain a little bit of why and what experiences you had in the past, right? And there are so many people I know that are telling me I lost everything with Tel Teruna and this and that and that. You know, people people have made so many experiences. Let me know in the in in the in the comments what's your experience and and what do you think and what are your hopes and and do you believe Saul can reach 2000 uh this cycle or no? Looking forward to uh to your comment. For now, thanks so much for watching guys. Catch you later. Peace.