URL: https://youtu.be/jHNzPHtcw0w
TITLE: Ep 396: Solving the Blockchain Storage Trilemma - Xandeum's Multi-Chain Edge
================================================================================

Hey, hey, hey everyone. Blockchain Bernie here. Episode 397, Salana Validator Economics. I've had several videos in the past and they were always like very wellreceived. So, I'm doing this because many people wanted an update on Salana validator economics. And in this video, I'll dive into the details. What drives your economics? Now, if you ever think of running a Salana validator, after watching this video, you will know exactly what is driving your profits, the your delegated stake that other people delegate to you, the commission you set, the performance you run, the skip rate that you have, and the soul price, and what are all your earnings that can be coming out of that. So it is a very very interesting video and by the way it has a a connection to Zandium the storage layer on Salana that is being built by Xandium and um they have a quite similar concept um with running their pen nodes. So it is important to understand the Salana economics so that you can understand the Xandium economics. All righty. So let's dive right into it. So let's go with this little calculator here. So this is a calculator by cogent crypto. Um it is about let let me see and make it a little bit bigger here. So that might be better. And um and then you can do your calculations here, right? So you might have a yearly server cost. In the case of Salana, that's relatively high. So they make it like $4,500 here for running a P node on Xandium. Those server costs are really really low at the moment because the requirements to run one of these storage servers is less, right? But we're on Salana here. And then let's say you have a 5% commission. So 5% commission, what does that mean? So you of all the returns that you earn your stakers, the people that stake sold with you, you keep 5% for yourself in this example, but you can set your commission however you want, right? you can make it 100% then the only people that will delegate stake to you will be yourself right nobody else will stake all with you because they get nothing and you take all right uh 5% might be a little bit kind of a sweet spot um but if you do 0% you might get a lot of stakers but you don't make anything for yourself so that's a decision it's a market decision right and and you have to make that decision uh right for yourself Um but then you see that here you set you set a commission and then there is an MEV commission. So Sana has MEV. What does MEV mean? Me stands for um maximum extractable value. So that's like when transactions are being bundled. It's all being done by JTO these days on Salana. I don't want to dive into these details here in this video, but you can set your MEV commission um as well. If you look here, you see that me commission in this example, we've set it to 10%. But this is a calculator here. So, cogent crypto, thanks cogent crypto for making this calculator. So, you can type in all these things and then you have the delegated stake here. And with that delegated stake, I mean, that's something I really want to explain to you, right? In order for your validator to be profitable, you need other people to stake their soul with your validator. Because if they don't, even if you have some soul for yourself, okay, you can delegate that soul to your own validator. But then you would earn just as much the the the same seven or 8% that you will be able to earn if you just take it to a different validator, right? It won't justify the cost and the effort and the stress to run a validator of your own if you just stake your own soul. It just won't, right? You need to have stake from other people. How do you get stake from other people? It's it's like self marketing, right? You need to be out there on social media. You need to be on their Discord. you need to help people out so that people know you. You're kind of a good member of the community. You're helping um community members and then you will be known and then there will be people staking with you. Also, there is a foundation. There is the Salana Foundation and they have a Salana Foundation delegation program, right? So, that's very interesting. So you can have up to like 130,000 Saul delegated to your validator, right? And even if you had 130,000 Saul in your own funds and you stake it to your own validator, that doesn't get you anywhere because you could take that 130,000 Saul and stake it to a different valid and then you and then you don't need to run your own validator to make a return on your own soul, right? The the the fun starts when you work with other people's money or other people's soul in this case and then earn a return for them and then keep 5% or whatever your permission whatever your com commission rate is keep that for yourself right so that's the economics here so you need stake from other people and there is the salana foundation that can give you some stake under certain conditions and they have the Salana Foundation delegation program for that, right? So, how does that relate to Xandium here that that that has the uh the scalable storage layer on the sauna chain? They have the Xandium Foundation delegation program, right? So, you can get Xand stake delegated from the Xandium Foundation, right? That is super important. you need to be after that because without that you will get like what 10,000 you know you you will get just a small kind of compensation for your efforts and for your hosting fees. Yeah. But you will not be able to earn real money. Um and and you're leaving money of the on the you know leaving money on the table if you don't intend and and make some efforts to get the stake of other people get stake delegated from other people and and we see that on the sauna chain. So, let's get back to uh that little calculator here that we had and um with um with all these things here um that we see here, there would be if someone has like 5% commission, 10% MEV commission, 192,000 sold in delegated stake, right? at a sold price of86,000 uh of $186.37 at the time of recording. Then the uh the total um the total income here, the net income per year, right? So this is yearly would be $36,000, right? That's not bad for um for 192,000. And you can see that um there is a inflation and we have the inflation rewards and we have the block rewards. So this is Solana specific inflation rewards block rewards both of them um add up here. So um and um that's different on Xandium. It's all about storage, right? It's all storage rewards and it's storage income, right? Zandium calls that storage income or stoink. Um, and and on Solana, we have the inflation rewards and the block rewards, and they both add up. And you can see here, so if I don't have 192,000 um, uh, sold staked here, but let's say I only have 19,000, right? Then look at that. That's only one/tenth of the stake and I only get 36,000, right? So now let's say um the I have a higher skip rate right? So the skip rate means like how well is the validator performing. So now we have oops what's this here? Now we have a uh a skip rate of 0% in this case but um let's say we have a 10% skip rate. So we're not performing that well. Um, and then look at the income, right? It has changed. It is down to uh Oh, wait. Is it like at 0% we were at 36,000 with a 10% skip rate? We're at 38,000. What is that? Maybe this maybe this calculator has some uh some sort of uh issues here, right? 20%. It's going up when we have a higher skip rate. That is crazy. Um so but usually if the skip rate is higher or if the um um if the uh the performance is lower for some reason then the vote credits and stuff like that then the rewards will go down right so that is important to understand it's all about the delegated stake and that is the same um with running a zandium p node right you will need in in the later versions of of Xandium. Right now, Xandium there is no Xand being staked to a P node, right? But that will come really really soon. And the real income you can earn with a Zandium P node is about um getting stake delegated from other people. Don't count your own Xand in there, right? You think like, oh, I have a lot of Xan tokens. I can stake it to myself. Yeah, you could, but you could also stake it to something else. So, you're not earning any additional money. You're not making money by running a P node if you only stake your own tokens, right? You will need other people to stake to it. And the easiest way to get that and to get high amounts of ZAN staked um uh to your own PNO is through that Xandium Foundation delegation program. That's going to be publicized in within the next few days. So, by the way, um if you haven't done so already, um uh please subscribe to my channel. Um and uh leave me a comment, like this video. That's all I'm asking. It's not much work. Please like this video. And um and um you know, with with doing that um with with you know, signing up for everything. signing sign up you know hit that notification bell so that you uh are not only subscribed to the YouTube channel but will also get notified by YouTube so that that you don't miss anything and also sign up for our discord and for our email list and for our Twitter right because if you're on our discord on our Twitter you will not miss the publication of the Xandium Foundation delegation program it's going to be happening within the next few days and then you are in the no and you will need to satisfy the condition of that Zanium Foundation delegation program which means you need to run a P node in both in mainet where it's going to be permissionless where you earn the money and the storage income right that's going to happen in mainet but you will also need to run your P node in DevNet and the DevNet will be renamed into testn net uh within the next few months so you will need to run your P node there as well and you need to run it as early as possible. You need to, you know, have your P node license purchased because that's Zandium's way of uh of fundraising. So there's no venture capital here. So Xandium needs that money to keep paying the team and building this solution which is a really really uh groundbreaking solution, right? Nobody has ever done it before. building a storage layer that is tightly integrated into smart contracts, right? So having kind of a file system onchain um that is accessible to the sauna developer, right? So what does that all mean? It means that you need to conform to the conditions of the Xanium Foundation delegation program. That means you need to run your P node also on DevNet. on DevNet, you need to have a license in order to be part of these rewards boosts that are coming out. So, if you buy these licenses, which is our fund Xandium's fundraising mechanism, right? Because we're not relying on venture capital for anything. So, that's um Xandium's fundraising thing. There is a Dutch auction of 49 more peot happening within the next few weeks to be precise on September 6. So mark your calendar for September 6. Um you can buy further Peno licenses there and you need these in order to get all these rewards boosts and the delegation the the foundation delegation for your keynote. So all these things are not necessary but they will enable that you can make these amounts here right um with your with your keynote later on um when when you do that so I just wanted to remind everyone don't blame me later on when you miss September 6 it's a very important date and um yeah these were the uh the economics um of of a sana validator Uh the link is down in the description of the uh the cogent calculator. We will also have calculators, the pnode profit calculators for Xandium out there um real soon. There's going to be a a project and and Zandium will will put a bounty there. So you can if you're great at at programming and and want to build that that calculator and run it for yourself, right? It's not like it's going to be the Xandium, you know, it's the same as this here, the Cogent. Um, Cogent did that, right? It's their calculator. It's not Salana's, right? But still, they might have gotten some money in the early days, kind of grants from Salana to to build this thing, right? So, um, this is this is all how it works. And, uh, it's super exciting stuff. It's super exciting stuff, guys. It's not like just buying some some crypto somewhere and hope that it goes up as we have it with memecoins here. You can really be part of the whole thing. You can run one of these p nodes or more of these p nodes in addition to running the validators. But with running the p nodes, you run the storage layer, right? And you can earn a lot a lot of rewards potentially, you know, just by running that node, not by having purchased some tokens early, right? But having ha having the running that penote and being that storage layer, right? It's not like there is some company that runs something and it gives you some. No, you are Xandium when you run one of these P nodes and and you need to get stake delegated. The easiest way to get stake delegated is get it delegated from the foundation. So, make sure you're you're going to be there. Sign up for everything. Go to zandium.network to learn everything um here and um and um yeah, sign up for everything for all our channels there. And again, uh, don't forget to like and subscribe. And the most important thing, if you have any questions, this is complicated stuff. How does all that work? How do the economics work of a Salana validator or also a Zandium penote? If you have any questions there, just leave them down here in the comments. I promise I'll look into most of them myself and uh and answer them. But for today, guys, thanks so much for watching. Catch you later. Peace.