URL: https://www.youtube.com/live/eQQAu8Asb_o?si=lBJCjbdxCd0BG5N0
TITLE: Ep 399: Xandeum pNode AMA - Master Economics & Seize Rewards Live
================================================================================

Hey, hey, hey everyone. Blockchain Bernie here. Episode 399. And uh this one is about all things economics. Oh, wait. It's maybe not live yet on YouTube. Okay. So, I'll do it again just in case it wasn't on there. Hey, hey, hey, hey. Blockchain Bernie episode 399. This is all about Xandium storage income. Xandium economics, what does it all mean? And also the Dutch auction is coming up. So you might have a lot of questions on why should I get P nodes in the Dutch auction. Um they are starting at a quite high price and then go down step by step. So um yeah, you guys might have a lot of questions and um let me know how the audio is by the way. Um, and um, let's just get started. So, maybe I'll give you a little bit of a reminder. So, um, we have the Dutch auction coming up. So, we sold 300 Penotes. And you might ask, why are we selling Penotes? So, that seems like there is a company that makes money off of it. And now we're doing the auction. So, let me be clear. All the money that will be raised from the Dutch auction. It goes into Xandium Foundation. Xandium Foundation is not owned by anyone. It is just like what's called an orphaned entity. So it doesn't have an owner or anything. And it will of course pay Xandium Labs to get the Xandium storage layer developed. Right. And all this goes directly into the Xanium Foundation. We have the new director of Zanium Foundation, Anthony. Anthony is going to go public on YouTube and X and everything as soon as he arrived at our office on the Cayman Islands, which is going to happen real soon. There's some bureaucratic things here going on and he needs his work permit and everything. And um he's moving to uh to Cayman into our brand new offices down there which are awesome. I've been there as well and um and he will go public, but he will be on like meetings and stuff like that, right? So, we have our moderators on our on our Discord chat. He's going to be in in the meeting um next Monday on Labor Day. Um we're going to meet with all the moderators and uh and Anony's going to be there. So, you at least the moderators will have a chance to get to know him before. You've seen him on a on a couple of photos and stuff like that. and he will be, you know, right here in in public as soon as he's there. It can only be a few weeks from now. All right. So, yeah, and and you know, all these things go to Zandium Foundation. We need a foundation that furthers the goals of the storage layer. But you have to understand that you guys, the P node owners, you are Zandia, right? It's not like there's a company that makes money off of it. There is a qu a cut of the storage income. 94% goes to the pen node owners, right? And just 6% goes to someplace else which helps develop the whole thing, right? And um but 94% goes to the goes to the penote operators and um and all the proceeds from the Dutch auction goes directly to the foundation. And it's the foundation's choice what to do with the money. And obviously since the product isn't ready yet, we all expect the foundation to place orders with uh with Xandium Labs to to get the storage layer developed. So that said, all the proceeds that come from um those pen node sales, you know, go directly to the foundation and it will likely use it all to for further development of the storage layer. So we are almost done with the Harrenburg release which is just awesome. We have all the devs right here in Vegas for 3 weeks now. Um visiting from India and Sri Lanka. Um so and yeah we um um we've also done a lot of design sessions for the upcoming stat release. So is super important because it has the metrics. So we will then give you credits for running your P node in a good way uh responding to all these heartbeats that you will receive every 30 seconds and responding to all these requests that are coming right. So that's all there. So you have to understand you as a pnode operator, you are the Xandium network. You are the Xandium storage layer and you get 94% of the income and the income is not coming from us in some way. It's not some company that has some money and gives you some rewards. That's only for the little rewards here that like the 10,000 Zand a month or something. Um but you know if if the storage layer becomes successful and we can only become successful with a lot of things going right and and you guys are the community you have to um help as well and you're doing that like crazy on X and I see all the all the engagement there. So thanks everyone uh for doing that and helping that and putting us into a good light and focusing on on the things why Zandium is special and why why it pays to be a part of the Xandium community. So you guys are doing all that. So that is awesome but with the actual storage income right? So let me um let me reiterate that here on uh on our website which doesn't show now this is all live. So let me try and uh and repair that um a little bit here. Oh, we're getting it done. Oh, it's already it's already here. So it should it's Oh, it's there. It's just a little bit small. Let's make it bigger. All right. Okay. So, you're seeing it now, right? The uh the Xandium storage income and rewards overview. So, the rewards is and you know, I I like to explain that so many times because it's a little bit difficult to get used to it, right? And I have so many people, smart people that I explained that to and I said like rewards that's just a little compensation for running that P node, getting back your your your efforts and and and your hosting costs and stuff like that. But what you're actually doing this for is you are part of that storage network. You are that storage network, right? You can determine fees later on. the fees will be will be determined by the fees market that we're building in the coal arrow which is coming up also. Um but the real thing we're doing this for is the storage income that you see here, right? And and that's that little picture here. We have those apps and the success of this whole thing hinges on the apps, right? So, we need to find people that build great apps, but also we want to build the first apps ourselves and we're building on that really, really cool thing um in the field of AI governance and it actually needs the Xanium storage layer. This business model wouldn't work if it was a centralized organization because people don't trust AIS. So, why would they trust any other centralized organization there? So it has to be decentralized and um that is a really really cool thing. But we see the whole storage income here. We see all these formulas. I don't want to go through all the details here because you know them already. I already had a um I already had a video about that. You see that all here. So um all the formulas. Um but this is what this AMA is for the ask me anything. So, I'll dive into all the questions you might have on these things. And I know there have been um a lot of questions. So, let's dive right into it. I don't want to um to uh to give you a lot of um lot of other stuff here. Let me see if we can still show Oh, we cannot. So, let me see if I can show you this other thing again. [Music] This should be numbers now. Oh, I can't see it cuz the camera is in the way. Yeah, I got it. Got it. This one. Ha. All righty. Got that one back. That's cool. Um, all right. So, let's dive into your questions here. And as always, um, everyone's here, so I'm super glad. Um, Allan is here. Um, Chinedu, is that how you pronounce it? Great to see you. Uh, Block Tech Ops, um, audio is fantastic. Thank you. Uh, Elaine, evening everyone. Great to be here. Great that you're here, Elaine. Um, Anna Benson, nice to be here. Awesome. Nice to meet you. Uh, Cap Cut Grew. Um, first of all, please tell us where our airdrop 2 is. Uh, we still haven't received it even though we have been earning Xandium points the whole year. Oh, wow. When was the last airdrop one payout? I think it's maybe two or three months ago. Um, airdrop 2 is coming. Nothing's going to get nothing is lost, right? It's like we are doing the Dutch auction now, right? It's like, you know, we can only do one thing after the other. And then and then we've done um rewards season 3, by the way. So, a lot of guys have been asking where am I? We are overdue and stuff like that. It's all there. You just need to go to the claim rewards tab and claim your rewards. Let me know if there's anything going wrong there, but I'm not aware of anything uh going wrong. You can claim your season 3 rewards and airrop 2 will be coming. And airdrop 2 is important to us, right? So um let me say that it is super important but we can only do one thing after the other and it all takes a lot of work and and we've been delaying it a little bit because we wanted to work with a company that can help us doing the airdrop right. Uh we've been discussing with that company but they said the cheapest price that they can make us is $100,000. So we stopped working with that company because it's just not worth it as of now for us. Um, but then we're just going to do the airdrop just like that. But I don't want to have my developers here for 3 weeks and we need to plan, you know, the Engle stat release and make the product and, you know, I I don't want to spend three weeks with my devs here uh just to do adrop 2 and you won't believe how much effort it is. It is not easy to distribute uh so many tokens to like a thousand guys. But it is important to us. We will do it and we will do it as soon as we can. Okay. All right, flex recap. Uh, will the AirDrop 2 still be distributed this year? Well, I answered that question. We're doing our very best and it would surprise me if it's not coming this year. It will be coming really soon. But what I don't understand is like why is it so urgent, right? It's like it's it's not like what what you know I I I don't you know, help me understand why it's so important to get it this month rather than next month. Right. It's not. I'm not going to take it away, guys. Right. It's not urgent. It's really not urgent. All right. Uh, please announce the date. Okay. Explaining background and role of Xandium Foundation was a great place to start and fund Xandium Labs for continued development. Yeah, Zandium Labs is the devco. It's a development company, right? And and uh it gets its fund from uh from the foundation. So, um, yeah, I think it's I think it's important people understand that. Um, and then Anna, I have a Windows 10 HP laptop. Oh, I'm really sorry to hear that. Uh, 64-bit 4 GB RAM, 265 gigabyte ROM. Is that enough to set up a P node? Wow, those specs obviously are are absolutely great. So, that's more than enough. You need a lot of drives, right? So, oh, you said ROM. So, 265 GB, you mean disc, right? Like SSD or something. Um, that is that is enough. You should have a little bit more disc, right? 256 GB is is okay, but you you can, you know, buy like a one TBTE disc and and connect it with with your USB C or something. um and and and Thunderbolt and then you have another terabyte that will be awesome but if you do it on a laptop the thing is your internet connection right over time it will be more and more right now it's not that important because we don't have that many apps that use the storage layer right it's just a few guys trying out FS on chain but once we're live on mainet and that's when the storage income starts to come in that's when you can make the real money right back you know in that day then then the speed and the reliability of your internet connection will be super super important so you can do it from home if you have a fast internet connection you need to have don't have a changing IP address I'm sorry guys it's not going to work with like a home internet where you get a new IP address every week or every month or stuff like that it's just not going to work. And please don't send a thousand support requests about that, right? Because you need a fixed a static IP address. You some uh internet providers do that for free. So I used to be on AT&T here in the in here in the US in California back in the day. I just called them and they gave me a static IP address and it didn't even cost anything. Others charge like a hundred bucks a month extra if you want a static IP address. And it's all different in Europe and in wherever you might be located. So, it's different things, but you need a static IP address, right? Right now, you can just host it on some hosting providers, right? We we mentioned Contabo, we mentioned Netcup and some of the others. It's just five, six, $7 a month, maybe $10 a month. And they have, they are in a data center. There is no power outages there. There is no um internet provider failures there. And if you do it from home, your internet on Saturday evenings, it's going to use by everyone to watch Netflix and then the internet for the peote is going to be slow. So if you absolutely want to do it from home, you can, but I don't recommend that. And I don't give support. That must be super clear. We're not giving support on how to run it on your home. If you want to run it from your home, you might be able to do it, but we cannot help you, right? And and and you are the one operating the pode, right? And you need to have a stable internet connection. So the best thing is to do it in in a data center. And as I said, it's not going to cost a lot of money. And most of the penote operators, these guys do it. So Anna Benson, yeah, you can do it on that Windows PC. You need to connect it to your internet at home. I don't know your internet connection. That's the main thing. The the laptop is fine, but the internet connection, that is the main point. And I can only recommend, you know, rather rent a VPS, a virtual private server for, you know, very little money. You don't have to take care of your laptop. You don't have to take care of power outages. You don't have to take care of the speed of your internet, right? It is very much worth it. I don't want to say like it's not possible from home. It is. And some people run their Salana validators from home, right? It's possible. But then you are the one that needs to be aware that it works, right? It's like it's it's not this is not a company that is responsible for your pode. You are responsible for your pode and that's why you the pnode operators get 94% of the storage rewards in the future. Right? So that must be clear. So that was the most you know clear answer that I can give. It might be possible from home. Your Windows PC is absolutely fine of course. It just hinges on the internet connection. I hope that answers your question. I, you know, I can just try to be, you know, as as frank and and as forward as possible here. All right, Mubby X. Um, can't wait for the app. Yeah, I can't wait either. And we're working on that in the background a lot and also with the devs that we have here. And we're currently in stealth mode, right? So stealth mode means it's kind of in secret mode. Um um we haven't publicized the name or the logo, but we do have both. Uh we're even discussing with initial people that help fund it and we're discussing the business model with lawyers and all that kind of things. And this app is important, right? It is important because the the success of the storage layer 100% hinges on the apps and we need a successful app. And I can't wait for all the community building their apps. And um but also we just have to build the first apps. And it's like Apple and Steve Jobs back in the day, they built the first apps for the Apple App Store, right? They just came right from Apple. And then other people thought like, oh, this is how I can do what I can do with this. And then they built their apps, right? So we have to be the leaders here and build the first apps. And I couldn't be more excited about this app in the AI field. And make no mistakes guys, AI is a very very important trend. And the size of that opportunity is larger than anyone can think. And it's a whole different animal than the internet was back in the day. It's going to change everything and it's going to grow, right? because there is so much innovation and and so much hunger for for uh more GPUs and more hardware and more models and figuring everything out and and I couldn't be more excited to have found a a business idea that is in the intersection between blockchain and storage and and AI. So that that's just fantastic and it can't take long until until you get the details on that. So we're working on all these things. Please forgive us if we're not thinking of AirDrop 2, but you know, you have my promise. We won't forget it. We won't delete your points or anything like that. Um it's all it's all good and it's all in the pipeline and it is important to us. It is really important to us. It's not like because we can't do it without those people, right? It is super important for us to have people earning these points, engaging with us on X, engaging with us here and spre help spreading the word and you pretty much earn your tokens for your points, right? So, Airdrop 2 is going to come and we're constantly working on it. All right. Um, Cornell, if the cost for storing information will be about $3 per terabyte per month, that's an if and we discussed that on Discord a little bit. It Yeah, it it could be something like that, but I don't know. It will be supply and demand, right? Um, where will the five to six figure income of PNO operators come from? From transaction fees for sending, bringing information. Well, for both, right? It's transaction fees and the storage fees. Um, so and you you know remember you have a 100 if if you buy a P node now in the upcoming Dutch auction and you get a Titan NFT you will have a total of a 176x right that's 17,500% boost factor of your rewards right so think about that and then it's about the ake. So again, I I was just making the sanity check like what if everything goes well, right? This is just for the total market size. This is not a promise. Um it's not a a a statement forwardlooking statement or projection and it's not a solicitation to buy any tokens or stuff like that. So all those disclaimers apply. All that it is is like a sanity check. Are we on the right path? Can we if everything goes well, can we all make a lot of money here? Is this a business model that is worth pursuing? Because it's a lot of effort and work for all of us. Right? So, we need to be aware is it worth it? Can we, you know, is is the market size that huge? Right? And I said that in a different video, right? right now I think it's about $5 million um per epoch. So $2.5 million a day that are being made in fees on the Salana chain that's s just transaction fees. So now if you if you think like best case, right? If everything goes well, nearly every app is storage enabled. Yeah. Then we're going to have at least that if not probably twice of it in just in storage transaction fees, right? Because storage transaction storage transactions also need to be confirmed and validated and everything. So that's 5 million a day then plus the actual storage fees, right? And and if everything goes well and we grow to even like only filecoin size, right? Filecoin is just standalone storage and they're like I think they're at 30 exabytes or so right now, right? So if everything goes well here, we are super smart contract enabled. It is super easy for developers to use the storage layer, right? So it can be way more than 30 exabytes and if this all is is profitable you will not stick with one terabyte um Cornell right if you see one terabyte makes you this money you will upgrade to 200 terabyte you will upgrade to to a few pabytes right and then you have the 170x and so on and so forth but hey you know if it's like 5 million just in storage transaction fees and then it's maybe let's say 10 million in in the actual storage fees then then you're at 15 million a day and 94% goes to the pen node operators. So let's say 12 million for the P node operators and you know there's always like only a few hundred that are really serious about running a P node right there will be thousands and tens of thousands that just don't invest or they let it slip or they don't upgrade the versions and stuff like that. It's just going to be let's say maybe 500 that do it really seriously. Right? So, so divide those those 15 million a day uh by 500. Um what's that then? Actually 50 that's 150,000 a day, right? So yeah, so that's where that's where the income is coming from. And I and I said that in that other video. I hope I hope that's all clear. And I hope the 176x factor, right? That's 16x for buying a deep south Arab node, right? Those are the last Deep South Arab nodes that are being sold in this Dutch auction now, right? Plus, if you buy it early in the first two hours, you get a Titan NFT. That's another 11x. So 11 * 16, that's 176x. And that is guaranteed until the end of the north era which is a long time probably because you know doing the first 80% is easy that doing the last 20% until the north era is really finished that's going to take 80% of the effort right so it's not like tomorrow that that's that is going to happen that we finished the north era and it will very very likely be held up after that, right? There is no we we, you know, I'm just super, you know, I'm here on YouTube. I'm public. Everyone can download this thing, right? And then it's like Bernie promised that it's going to stay forever, guys. I'm not God. I'm just Bernie, right? I cannot promise anything forever. And and it's a it's a market that is moving uh very fast. So things can change. So we need some sort of checkpoint where we say do we need to make adjustments and that is not for giving less to the P nodes because how you know there there is no centralized company that could then grab something right it it's not there you own it and you vote on it right after the end of the north era and that's my promise here right and I'm live on YouTube that's my promise if it's going to be changed after the end of the north era it's going to be a DAO vote right and it is going to be only to get more decentralization right it's like if if we have big guys that get mostly everything you know let's say they have in you know they have bought stuff for millions of dollars they have hundreds of millions of Xan that they can stake to their own pode and and they bought a ton of Titan NFTts and stuff like that and and they are in the so-called super minority, right? We will get to doing more and more decentralization by just not giving rewards to the ones that already are big, right? That's the only thing where things can change, right? where things can change to the smaller ones. They, you know, it's just like the bigger ones won't get additional um help from from the foundation because they don't need it. And that's how it works on Salana also, right? If you're in the Salana run salana validator, you're in the so-called super minority, then you don't get stake from the from the Salana Foundation, right? And we did the same in the Xandium Foundation delegation program which we uh have sent to to our moderators the the Discord moderators. So to a small part of the community they have the Xanium Foundation delegation program out there and it has all these things in there. If you're already big you don't get additional stake from the Xandium Foundation. So it's all made for decentralization and that's the only reason why after the end of the north era we might have to make adjustments right just to let smaller guys and newer guys in right um yeah so I hope that makes sense to to anyone. All right. W Metro, hi. Sasha, hi. Uh, Ray Comfort. Good evening, Bernie. Great work. Keep going. Thank you. Thank you. Um, Peter, hey, where do you see Zandium this time next year? Um, good question. So, I see this time next year, I see our I see us live on mainet, of course. Um, and again, no forward-looking statements, no promises, no solidation to buy tokens or anything. You just ask me for my personal opinion and that's just my personal opinion, not more, not less. So, um, I see us live on mainet. I see our AI app live on mainet. I see probably around 10 or 20 successful apps that come out of the community, setups, right? And successful, I mean like they're being used by hundreds of people each and every day, right? or thousands of people each and every day, right? We will likely this year, this time, next year have hundreds of apps, maybe a thousand thousands of apps, but most of them won't get any traction, right? Because it's tough to make an app that's actually being used by people a lot, right? That's called product market fit, PMF, and that is one of the most difficult things you can do as a startup. Um but I think you know this time last year hopefully we will have a handful like five to 10 of set apps that are not from us not from Zandium um that are successful by that definition and um and and we will have some storage fees coming in and I do do not you know it would be a serendipity it would be a really great um coincidence if this time next year we would have like crazy amounts of storage fees coming in, right? Because also the AI app, it has to pay for a lot of storage fees because it stores all the data that it collects from all these uh AI tools, but it has to pay for it, right? So that that AI app is selling subscriptions um for for that platform that that the AI app is going to build. And that also needs to take some time to build traction there. And and I don't think this time next year the storage fees coming in will be huge but there will be some sign some you know non-negligible storage fees coming in and and that was the same with jetto by the way. So I I look a lot towards jetto here. Uh how do they approach things? How did it develop for them? And when I adopted with my sauna validator, I adopted goto in the early days. It was like tiny tiny amounts in NEV rewards that I got for like half a year. I didn't even see it in my wallets cuz it was 0.000073 soul or so, right? Like each and every epoch. It was minuscule, guys, right? And it took I probably n months, 12 months or so until the MEV really took off. And we need to still build the AI app and then you know that takes some time. So I see that AI app live by but this time next year and I see the AI app having sold some some subscriptions there and some higher paying subscriptions to like governments and and and large corporations and all that kind of stuff. I I I see that AI app in the press everywhere. Um, so I see it just taking off and getting a lot of traction, but probably not making a lot of revenues yet. And these revenues will be what's paying for the storage fees. So yeah, that's where that's where I see us uh next year. I hope that makes sense. Um, happy to to respond to any follow-up questions. Uh, why Metro Anna Benson? For now, it will suffice, but Linux is better option as Windows 10 might need more RAM. The Linux is definitely a better option than Windows for anything, right? So, um, did I mention I don't like Windows? Uh, maybe I haven't, but yeah, you need a static IP address from your ISP and be willing to upgrade when requirements go up. Thanks for that answer. Why Metro? Um, block tech ops. I've watched stowing video multiple times. Please explain more by example. If you have three P nodes all from deep south era, is it 16 * 3? Yes, it is. And as early Zen know 16 * 3 * 1.1. Yeah, that's exactly it for that part of the formula. It is. Yeah, you understood it, right? Um and I and yeah, I I just want everyone to to understand that, right? It's a very very great opportunity now that will not come back, right? It it it it just won't come back. So, I can only um um call on everyone here to look into what you can get here in the Dutch auction, what it actually means and and making use of that last opportunity to get the 16x deep south, right? And they all multiply with each other. um as you just as you just mentioned uh block tech ops right it's 16 * 11 * 3 p nodes times 1.1 for the xeno nft right it all adds up so the 176 if you have three p nodes that's like what 400 something I have no idea here do I have a calculator here I don't um can you calculate 176 * 3 and And we're going to have it soon. That's 528, right? Times 1.1 then you're at like 560 570. That is crazy, right? And if you then go like pabytes of storage and and you have hundreds of millions of XAN that you can stake, then you dominate the whole thing, right? If someone dominates the whole thing and they've already made millions and millions until the end of the North era, we might maybe give them a little bit less factor and give a higher factor to the smaller guys just to make it more decentralized. That's what this little disclaimer is for that things might change after the North era, but you will decide it. It will be a DAO vote, right? Okay. Why Metro again? And if these deep south nodes earn 16x and get 10,000 zan per month, the 10,000 zan per month is a totally different thing, right? That's what I call the rewards. They are coming from the foundation. They have nothing to do with storage income. That comes from the apps. That comes from our users. We're building a platform and you are that platform that's going to be used by customers, right? just to you probably understand it but for the general audience here I just want to repeat it as often as I can because it's super important to understand all right and if these deep south nodes earn 16x will the 11x for the Titan NFT node earn no the rewards and the storage income is different right the the 11x does not apply to the rewards they come from totally different source, right? The rewards come from Zandium Foundation. They come out of the tokconomics that that were published in the beginning and they have nothing nothing nothing to do with the storage income. It's totally different. So, rewards tiny amounts just to, you know, we don't want you to pay the $5 a month for your hosting. We don't want you to pay for your few hours a month that you need to put in there. So, Xandium Foundation gives an incentive for you to do that in the form of these 10,000 Xand a month. That's not what we're doing it for. We're doing it to build that platform. And everyone needs Xandium Labs to build that out, right? And then to market it and to sell it and to build the demo app and then that's the storage income. And these multipliers are only for the storage income. They are not for the rewards. Okay. All right. And if these deep south deep south nodes earn 16x doom doom doom will the 11x for the Titan NFD. Yeah, that was that question. Oh, you just posted it two times. The same question here, I believe. Okay. Flexi spy gaming video storytelling. I reached out on Discord regarding helping the team sort out cheaters in the airdrop system. I'm a tech guy and I understand smart contracts, but I got no response from Discord. Okay. Um, great that you put that point here. So, I hope you have that same name on Discord so that we can find you. And what what channel on Discord did you post it? Um, just go back to Discord, ask for myself, and uh we'll get back to you. All right, block tech ops. Then adding in any of the NFT by buying another P node to my question above 16 * 4. Yeah, four will be the new number of P nodes then, right? Times 1.1* 11. That is absolutely correct. Block tech ops. that is and that is exactly the right question and that's why we have these prices for those penodes and NFTTS in the Dutch auction right so I'm glad you guys are now starting to understand you know how how large of an of an opportunity that is how much you can actually get ahead in the Xandium network Um, if you get your P nodes and it's only 49 left. So only 49 deep south P nodes with those Titan NFTs. Of course, we will be selling other P nodes. And again, this is our way or Xandium's way of fundraising. There is no venture capital in there. Not saying we will never have venture capital, but we do not have we we don't have anything of that. So we are you know we are raising funds from the community which of course is voluntary right nobody is being forced to pay anything here and what sometimes happens is when a company needs more money it's raising more money from others then the old investors get diluted in some way right that's how it is right it's like it's like we will need more money to build this we'll likely need a lot of more and and you know other you know early investors might get diluted by that. That's that's you know it's the same as with stock corporations and stuff like that but you always have the opportunity you know we will never do a funding round and say the old the early investors don't have a chance to do that as well right and there might be some in the community that just cannot afford to do that and and that's fine right that's totally fine but you know if we don't raise more money we will just go out of business and that doesn't help anyone Right. So, we absolutely need to raise more money. We're doing that with the Dutch auction now and we will be doing that soon for the AI app. Um, that's that's going to come real soon. So, yeah, again, a totally totally open answer here, but I'm happy that you guys are seeing the enormous factors here and they all multiply with each other. It is 16 for the deep south times 4 the number of NFTts times 1.1 for the Zeno NFT the Xandium early node owners NFT times 11 for the Titan NFT right so yeah it's you know I I I can only say that it's a huge opportunity there are a few guys out there uh waiting on the sidelines not everyone has the has the buying power to be a major force in there. So that's fine. Um but yeah, we just we you know also for the small guys, right? You might be disappointed now and say like, okay, I would have liked to do that also, but you know, we need to raise money. We can either raise it from VCs and then and then you're going to be cut off a lot of your earnings also because the VCs won't invest if they don't get, you know, their share of the game. Or we can do it from the community. I really like it from the community and and it has been great for us so far and and I hope it's continuing that way and um and I like that way and and and you know I'm I'm super excited how the Dutch auction goes. I have no idea. I really have no idea. It's just it's just an experiment and um and um we only have 49. So it can happen anytime that they're all gone if if you wait too long. So um that's the whole psychology of it. Um yeah, and and I can only encourage you to vote for a specific hour when it starts, right? because we didn't and Zandium Foundation didn't want to be the one that says, "Okay, it's going to start at this and that time and then certain time zones are being um advantaged over other time zones. So, you can vote with your wallet. You can vote a few USDC." Um, last time I looked, the highest bid was $4 USDC for a certain time. I think it was 1,600 UTC, which would be 9:00 a.m. Pacific time, which is good for us and our team. so we can be up and awake when the Dutch auction starts. But if you want it for your time zone or you have a specific thing in time where you say, "Okay, I'd love to have the Titan, but I can't afford it, but at least I want to have the dragon." So, and the dragon ends like after the first 12 hours. So, so you want to have these 10 hours where the dragon is on. You want to have them at the time when you're awake, right? So then you can vote for a specific hour when the Dutch auction starts. And I can only encourage you to do that. Anything you bid there. So right now it's under $10, right? But maybe it's going to be pushed up uh when the deadline comes or maybe it's going to be pushed up after this video. Not sure. So if there's any significant amount, it will all go to Zandium Foundation and it will all be used for the further development of the the Xandium layer here. Okay. Uh, Cap Cut Gru, you had said that we won't have to wait anymore for the Zenium rewards for session two. You mean season two? And you specifically mentioned that we won't need to wait for weeks or months, but that will receive them in days. So, the uh season 2 and season 3 rewards are all up there for claiming both for Zen staking and for um and for liquid staking. But I assume you're talking of the airdrop here and I said um a lot of things for the airdrop as well earlier here. Um Allan, I am running a validator and two P nodes from home office. uh from a home office and it cost me about 500 a month for five static IP addresses. That is crazy. So running from home could cost more. Yeah, it depends on the ISP though, right? Um yeah, I I you know I have um two ISPs here in my home um which is uh Cox Internet and um and Starlink, right? So with Starlink, you can get a static IP at at no additional cost. Starink works everywhere. So it works in Arkansas as well. Um so just use a Starink and it costs uh you know it depends. It starts at 50 bucks a month. A decent plan is maybe 150 or so. And um and you can get the static IP. So 500 a month sounds really really high. And yeah, it might be just better to do it hosted anywhere. I mean, it's just uh just as it is. All right, so block tech ops. Uh what happens if people do not monitor their pode? Well, have downtime for whatever reason, how do these how do those who have their data stored on these podes get access to their data? That's a great question. So that's where uh redundancy comes into play, right? So we are currently in a road map. So now I can't show you the other sheet here, right? Because it's actually my my favorite thing that I want to show you, but I'm just not sure if I can. Yeah, I cannot. Yeah, it's not easy to show it right now. So, so either way. Oh, but yeah. >> Yeah. So, anyway, right. So, we're at at Harrenburgg right now at the Harrenburg release, the Ingold stat release will give all the credits, right? So, every time you respond to a heartbeat, you get one credit. Every time you not respond to a request like a storage request or you respond with the wrong data to a storage request, you get a negative 100 points, right? So you get 100 points subtracted and then at the end of the day or end of the epoch, you have a certain amount of credits which is then um used for um for your rewards and for your storage income and everything. um when when someone doesn't maintain their P node that's where the fault tolerance comes into play so that means redundancy right so most apps will choose to have at least three P nodes of redundancy or seven P nodes of redundancy right so that means each p piece of data is stored on seven P nodes if one fails it will be evicted the system will automatically use a different P node and and take the six others that already have the correct data and replicate it to that seventh one. Right now, what we're live with is the Munich release. The Munich release doesn't have redundancy yet, right? That's why the Munich release is called a fully functional prototype. It's not even an MVP yet. MVP would be a minimum viable product that we're going to have in the Stoutkar release. Right? So, we're Harrenburgg is almost done. Engle stat is going to come and Englestat is going to be quick. It adds the credits and then Stogart is going to come and Stogart will introduce the redundancy. It's going to be a little bit larger release. It's a bit to figure out and to code there, right? But once we're on Stogart, then we we're we're going to have the redundancy. So then it will be possible to switch to a different P node. So if someone doesn't maintain theirs or it's off or they don't upgrade or stuff like that, then the system will automatically find another one and get the data from the others that have the correct version. So that's important to to understand. Um so I like your questions. Uh block tech ops, are you new uh by the way? So great questions. I love it. You're asking the the the good questions here. Um following on and still block techch ops uh where does that portion of pnode stowing income get shifted to? Is it redistributed to any other of the functioning penote holders? Yeah. So there will be credits in the you know I told you about these credits that the P nodes are going to be collecting in the beginning in ingold stat it's just for being up and responding to requests but as we progress into stoodg guard and have the redundancy and all these type of things there will be credits for you know how often you really fail and if you get evicted and replaced with another pode that will be a lot of penalties and a lot of credits will be subtracted. and and then and then each P node has a number of credits at the end of the epoch and all the available rewards will be distributed by the number of credits, right? So if you do a lot of failures, you won't have any credits. So you won't get get any for that epoch, right? And if that happens like repeatedly, you won't even be able to rejoin or stuff like that, right? Yeah. So this is how all the this this redundancy and fee markets and stuff work like I recommend looking at our development road map. It's on our website also right so there is the eras um are are are shown on the website so you will see it there and you see all those different uh eras there and versions that we're going to build. They are all planned out until the north arrow, right? And you'll see that on that sheet. What functionality comes in what. But these are awesome questions. I love it. Okay, Anna Benson again. Uh, thank you Bernie. I heard you clearly and understood you. Okay, sounds awesome. Why Metro? How much do we have to learn about security when these P nodes are getting mainnet and being super important for the storage on all these blockchains? That's a good question. Um, you you know with that SSH thing uh that we're that we're having here which you know was a little bit of a challenge for some of them but we have 156 P nodes now online and upgraded. So I see people are are able to use it. Um that SSH alone I is giving a lot of security. Um, you just need to stick to the rules there. Make sure you have password login disabled, which is part of our um um part of our docs to to set up your pode. And um and you know, it's tough for me to say, right? If I say like, oh, it's actually no problem. You don't need to do much. and then there's some security breach then you know I'm I'm the one that said oh it's all easy right total security is not easy right but the security that you really need and that you do daytoday and that I do for all my servers that I run and for all my validators that I run you know it's just a few basic rules you know don't don't leave password login on SSH open just don't right because people will break your password No, no matter how great your password is because in SSH they can just try it all the time. They can try it 10,000 times, right? And there's tools out there, open- source tools and the name of these tools, the most important one is called Jack the Ripper, right? So that tool is open source and it can break any password on on SSH. So don't leave password login on SSH open. That's a simple rule. I personally suggest not running SSH on port 22 because everyone's checking all the servers out there on the internet and trying to get into SSH on port 22 because port 22 is the standard port for SSH. Run it on a non-standard port, right? Figure out your own, right? Like I don't know 1910 or something like that, right? And and and and run your SSH on a different port. That helps a lot. People will not will not do that. And you know, as long as nobody can SSH into it, there is not that much of an attack vector, right? It's like if you have port 80 open, yeah, they can see your stats. And if there's a vulnerability somewhere in some of the base tools that we have, yeah, they could exploit that, but that can happen anytime. You can't you can't really do anything there, right? other than you know watching the press and see what vulnerabilities are there and and if we get get no get knowledge of any of those vulnerabilities we will let the community know but you know my personal opinion is and again that's not an official statement don't cite me on that but my personal opinion is you don't need to have like a cyber security certification and everything as long as you follow basic rules, you should be quite safe to a reasonable degree, right? And honestly, other than someone, you know, breaking into one of my servers using password SSH password login, that happened to me like 15 years ago. But otherwise, I've been running that infrastructure for 20, 30 years, and I've never had any real incident. Right? It's just keep your SSH safe and don't click on friaking links that that people send you on Discord or or email or anything, right? It it it Yeah, it I see that every day on our Discord. Why do you guys do that? You cannot just someone finds you somewhere on Telegram, on Discord, on email and tells you something and you believe it and you click on that link. Don't do that, right? you get a free NFT in your wallet and the NFT has a link, don't click on it. Right? So, but those are basic rules, guys. You don't have to be a cyber security expert. You just cannot just believe and you just random people that reach out to you on random channels. It it's just don't do that. But otherwise, really, you don't have to be a security expert. Okay. So, MBI, uh, you just mentioned my question. Why Metro? Okay, so people have the same uh, block tech ops, man. You don't stop asking questions here. I love it. From exabytes to pabytes with a T, is that spelled? Huh? Learning new jargon. Yeah, it's easy, right? So, it's, you know, everyone knows gigabytes. A thousand gigab, I say a,000. It might be 1,024 depending on what measure you're talking about. But just to make it easy and short in the video, I say 1,00 right? So 1,000 gigabytes is a terabyte. So everyone knows a terabyte these days, right? 20 years ago, nobody has heard of a terabyte, right? It was an unfathomable um amount of storage back in the day, right? But today, everyone knows a terabyte. You know five ten years from now everyone will know pabytes because a pabyte with a t peta a pabyte is just a thousand terabytes and then a thousand pabytes is an exabyte right and we're not only scaling to exabytes it says exabytes plus right because after that there is more stuff coming and and it all and I think there's a yabyte and then there's a zetabyte and stuff like that so lots of stuff there Cool. Um, block tech ops 15 million divided by 500 is 30,000 uh per day. Um, yeah. Uh, is that right? Which could be storage fees to split with dedicated. No, it's already split, right? It's divided by 500. Th this is per successful penote, right? I was making the assumption like there will be 500 that take 90% of the rewards or 95% of the rewards because the other 5,000 P nodes they will not be upgrading they don't have a lot of stake they haven't bought a Titan and if stuff like that right there will only be 500 atmo that's my assumption right it's not again it's not a projection no promise no solitation to buy tokens not financial advice That's just my personal opinion. From what I've seen in Salana and in other blockchains, it's likely going to be five. If we have 10,000 out there, it's likely going to be 500 that make 95% of the income, right? And then divide the 15 million by 500, that's 30,000 per penote per day. And I'm not saying this will happen right again. But I'm saying this is the the the the opportunity the size of the opportunity here and in order to get there a lot of things have to be right. Zandium Labs has to be able to develop the solution to find you know we build in the the fee markets and and and develop the redundancy and all the the Byzantine falterance and all these types of things that are on our road map. We have to be able to actually overcome all these technical challenges and those are huge. This is a very very tough technical problem to solve and has never been done before. And then we have to find apps that that developers that build apps. We have to be able to build our own apps. They have to become successful. We have to find customers. We have to find product market fit. And then we'd have to find more and more apps and make the Zandium storage layer kind of the standard and all Salana apps will be using it. So these are a lot of ifs, right? But that is why we're building it because that opportunity is there and how much of that opportunity we will be able to grab is up to all of us. We all need to need to give our best. you know, I'm giving my best to get this thing developed, to hire the people, to manage our cash flow, to always raise enough money so that we can buy it. And your job is to run your POD as good as you can, and to um help spread the word and talk about the why why is Xandium is great and stuff like that. And um and and yeah, that's that's what we can do. We can all give our best, but we can all give our best and we can still fail, right? Due to things that we just cannot influence, right? It it can always happen like I don't know there could be a bomb falling on Xanium headquarters or um there could be whatever some geopolitical macroeconomic events or whatever it might be, right? It's not we can make it happen. We can only let it happen, right? We can let it happen by not by refraining from blocking it. But by refraining from blocking our own success, right? If we talk about, you know, small things and why 10,000 Zand which is like $50 come a month later or stuff like that and we discuss that in front of everyone on the public discord, we're blocking our own success. People come there from from on the discord and they see these discussions and they think like, well, these guys are busy talking about $50 in this month or next month, right? That's crazy, right? See the size of the opportunity here and and help make it happen. And you know, like 99.9% of the community is doing that and I'm super super grateful for that. But you know, it's it's like we can only let it happen. we we cannot make it happen, right? And but that's the size of the opportunity and that's what I want everyone to understand, right? Cuz you know, I'm not 22 anymore, not even 25 anymore. I don't want to spend 10 years of my life building something that can never be big, right? And many people do that. They are building technical solutions that basically never can become big, right? But this can become big and that's important to me right because we are all spending valuable lifetime for this and we want to put it into something that has the potential to become huge right and that's why I like to dive into these numbers here and it can become huge for everyone and especially it can become huge for the ones that take their keynote seriously that upgrade it every time they need to that learn more and more about how to run it. And I'm super grateful for the ones in our community that help others, right? There's Neoba out there. There is Nicolo out there that help other people with getting their keynotes out there. I absolutely love it. I just recently reposted some of their posts on on X. And I'm also grateful for everyone who's done it, who's reached out to them, who's engaging with us here. So that is super super important. But I want everyone to understand the size of the opportunity here, right? This is not like something, oh, I could earn six times 10,000 zan, 60,000 zan by running a pen node. That's not why we're doing it. We're doing it because of the size of the opportunity. And and it's tough to reach to reach that, right? We we we just need to execute well. All of us need to execute well in and and most of them all obviously myself but you know I cannot do it alone. We all need to execute well and um and then we have that size of the opportunity. All right cool Anna uh once more again thank you Bernie for being honest with the community. Thank you. Thank you and and that's all I can do. I mean, what what Yeah. Um, but I appreciate you recognizing that and and and acknowledging that. Great addition tonight. Bernie was Elaine. Thank you, Elaine again. Love your honesty. Bernie Nicolo, good session. Um, so we're already over an hour today, huh? And I'm I'm not even through with my messages here. Um, it's getting quite warm in here. Can you check the the temperature? Um, David Lloyd. Hey Bernie, will staking to P nodes be restricted to community or can anyone stake without restriction? Anyone can stake, right? So if you run a P node, what you want is stake. You want other people to stake with your P node rather than other P nodes. And anyone can buy Xand on Jupiter and stake it to your P node and and make a good return with that, right? And there will be platforms like the Pnode analytics platforms um and and some of you guys will develop that. We will need the Harrenburg release for that. But the Harrenburg release is just around the corner, right? It's it's going to be not a long time until we release Herrenburgg. Then the Pnodes have an RPC interface, right? And they have a gossip network, by the way. So, so that's all awesome with with Herrenburgg. So then some apps can be out there and they can query what penotes are out there using that gossip network and showing all the stats and the history of these penotes. So that will enable people to check out which penote to stake to, right? It's it's going to be a whole economy, but anyone can stake zan to your pode. Yes. Uh John Beats, hi everyone. Hey, John. I still can get my rewards for July 29th. Well, you just need to claim them, right? So, not not sure what rewards you're talking about. Uh whether it's Zan staking or whether it's liquid staking or whatever it is, just go to the place where you where you got it and click on the rewards tab and claim your rewards. It's as easy as that. uh block tech ops in the calculation from my q above a question above isn't it 16 * 4 * 11 * 1.1 is 774.4 as I already have bought three in deep south. Yes, this is answering my question. Well, you know, if you if you want the 11 for all four of the of the of the P nodes, then you need to have four Titans, right? So, if you buy one Titan, you can assign it to one of your P nodes, right? There will be like a portal and you can assign it to one of your P nodes. But if you want the 11x for all four, you need four four titans, right? That that's how it is. So you won't and the Titan won't be able to buy you the 11x for the pen nodes that you already have, right? So you will get the 16* 4* 1.1 for all of them, right? And then depending on the number of titans, you will be able to apply that 11x Titan to individual P nodes, right? I hope that makes sense. That that that's Yeah. And then John beats on my stake rewards. Stake rewards is still not specific because you can stake Xand or you can stake Saul uh liquid stakes all but both of them are available. Right. So for liquid staking it's zansol.zandium.net network as it always was. There's a rewards tab claim your rewards. For the Xan staking it's stake xand.zandium.network. There's a rewards tap claim your rewards. It has been like that since many seasons. So nothing has changed there. It's been on Discord many times that it's available for claiming since many weeks, right? Um okay. Block tech ops 774 times 100% that's 77,400% right? That's a huge boost. Correct. Technically, it will be 77,300 because, you know, if it's 2x, it's only a 100% boost because 2x is 100% more than 1x. Yeah. So, that's a little bit uh weird to to figure out, but yeah, 77 774.4 four is 77,300% boost, but that almost doesn't matter, right? It's like um yeah, block tech ops. But you're saying that at the end of the north era, there could be adjustment of additional stake. I would have to continue to attract my own stake. Yeah, that's with everything, right? with the Xandium Foundation delegation program and we're going to publish that soon. I actually was planning to show it um on this on this little video here, but somehow I might be able to actually XF No, Verena. Oh, XFDP. Here we go. And man, how can I Okay, so let me try that here. That should be that should be here. Zenium foundation delegation program just to show you that it's ready and it will be published soon. Um so you need to participate in DevNet in order to get the stake on mainet right and the stoink the storage income is only for mainet of course right and in order to get the delegation the stake delegation from the foundation you need to run in in uh devet also and in mainet that's the same as in salana by the way right and then and then we have that formula here there's the link here that links to that page that I showed you before. And then there's a residual delegation and a match delegation. Right? So, it's a little bit of um you know forward looking here because we're just in the process of releasing this. This is just a preview here. It's like a like a review version for the moderators that we have. And then you need performance requirements, network requirements, um security uh behavior, all that kind of stuff, right? But it will be capped, right? The match delegation uh will be capped at um uh at 10 million end. That's right here, right? So, and the residual delegation is also um capped at 1 million's end, right? and and once you're on your own feet with everything, you don't need that delegation anymore. And anyone should get onto their own feet here and get stake from somewhere, right? This is not like a, you know, a money printing machine from the foundation. The foundation is helping P nodes getting on their own feet. And getting on their own feet means attracting their own stake, right? And once they have tons and tons of stake, they will lose the delegation from the foundation, which is not a big deal because then they really don't need it anymore, right? And that is all very very similar to what's happening on Salana. So we're not reinventing the wheel here. It's something that has been working on Salana for three four years or something. It is battleproven and and we're kind of mimicking that here in in this field. Okay. Uh, Michael, is there a plan B if you didn't get the cash you are planning to raise with the Dutch auction? You know, there's always a plan B. Of course, we have a lot of a lot of options to to raise money. And, you know, we will be raising money with um with AI app that's coming out. Um, I even told you we had VCs stopping by at our booth at Rare Evo, which is really cool. Um, I have an in-person meeting with with one of them um next Wednesday um just to discuss a few a few things and get their opinion on a few things and um and there's always um a way to even raise money from from the community, right? And you know there were there were things being discussed like is are some people in the community willing to you know do a subscription and and contribute like $50 a month and to get this and that boost factor in return or something like that right and and and you know if a 100 or or 200 people do that it it makes a difference right so there are so many so many things out there and and there are a lot of plans but you know I I I I assume the Dutch auction will be going well. I also assume the fundraising for the AI accountability app uh will be going well, but you know there are always a thousand options and life always continues, right? Um all right, why Metro? Um what if you have penos left after the Dutch auction? Then we'll keep them. Then if they don't sell, they stay there, right? And uh we we we just might be selling more in in the south era then, right? With the reduced boost factor. All right. Um a question about performance. At what server speed do I get performance score? Um yeah, I I recommend reading the the uh delegation programs here uh that we have here and um this will all change, right? It's like in in in the ingot area era, ingots release uh we're starting to measure performance and and I told you you just have to respond to each and every heartbeat every 30 seconds and you have to respond to each and every request storage request that you're getting. um then that might all change in the later releases that we have and what good performance means will change over time and frankly as it also is on Salana it is competition right you might might be able to run a Salana validator in your home on on on a small machine but there's other validators out there that are better and the competition changes each and every day right you just have to keep up with with the performance performance there. But you know in contrary to Salana validator, you don't need a huge machine here, right? You don't need a lot of RAM. You don't need a lot of CPU. You might need a lot of storage. If everything turns out profitable to you, you will automatically up your storage because you see, you know, every terabyte earns you this and that much. So you will buy a lot of drives and because it pays for you, right? That's kind of like automatic. We don't even have to incentivize it, right? And um and yeah, the performance score is just measuring everything, right? So every time you're down, you're just not getting credits that and if you were up, you were getting credits. And that way, the better your performance, the more credits you get and the more rewards you get. Um Nicolo, how can people learn about building Xandium apps? Um we have these uh things out there on uh on the Xandium network site with you know the Xandium web 3JS and uh all the functions that are out there but we don't have like really educational material and it's all made for people that already know how to build Salana apps and it's just that additional layer um that we're doing there. Um but otherwise we haven't really focused on that one yet and and that's because the Munich release is not resilient yet. You guys have um recognized that yourselves. It's it's not an MVP yet. It's just you know it'll it'll break the file system if some some P node stops working and stuff like that. So we need to get a little bit more uh done on the development side here. But then pretty much we want to work on how do we make that approachable to um to devs? How do we uh send it out to devs? And that's pretty much something we might be um discussing. And and Nicolo, you might be a great person to to discuss that with. So um let's just get into a meeting um and and discuss it. I'll I'll reach out to you, Nicole. uh block tech ops uh thanks for explaining redundancy credits and detail about errors I have read semi-studied zanium road mapap 2 I'm not new kesla here oh nice nice nice good good to meet you here so it's kind of middle of the night for you in Australia isn't it or are you from Australia I remember you are okay uh John beats I can claim it now all right that's awesome to hear um Peter In theory, would big P node located right next to RPC steal all Stowink because it would have fastest responses. Um, don't think so. Um, first of all, RPCs will be spread all over. uh apps can choose which which RPC they make their calls to and I don't think latency will be that big of an issue here right because here it's not about doing hundred thousands of transactions a second that's Salana's job right our job is to store things uh safely I don't think there will be lots of credits just for responding fast right it's just you'd have to respond with the correct data and and within reasonable time, right? It's not about milliseconds or microsconds here. We're not in a trading um field here where that actually matters, right? It matters in in crypto and it also matters in traditional finance if you do trading there. Um you need to be close to the exchange and have low latency to be faster than anyone else. This could still be a factor in here, but way way less than it is in trading, right? Because it's not a race against anything, right? It's just it's just those p nodes have to be reasonably responsive, right? And and give the correct results in in like a reasonable time. But whether it's a millisecond more or less, that won't give you tons of more credits or will give you that transaction that otherwise goes to the other guy as it is in in trading. That's not like that with storage, right? So you just have that page stored because it was assigned to you, right? It's not like if you're not fast enough, then within a millisecond someone else comes and takes that business away from you, right? That happens in trading, but it doesn't happen in storage, right? So it is not that critical. And the word performance just means like don't take the word performance as like it has to be super fast. Performance just means like you have to do your job. The P node has to be up. It has to respond to heartbeats. It has to respond to to requests. It has to respond correctly to requests and things like that. That that's that's what we mean with performance here, right? It's not like being the fastest of them all. That that that that's not it has to be reasonably fast of course, right? We want we want the storage results to come fast there. Um but this is not a race of milliseconds or microsconds as we have it in trading, right? Hope that makes sense. Nicolo, never give out your wallet phrase or password. We say this all the time, but people still do it. Yeah. Don't know. I mean it's like and then they come to us and and expect us to do a lot of support and how can I get my Zansol back and it's man yeah and don't don't give your phrase to people that you've never met. They just sent you a DM on Discord or on Telegram and you know it's like I don't know. Yeah. It it's like you meet someone on the street you've never seen before and says like give me you a car key I will help you you know getting it washed or something like that right it's like don't do that the history of computing shows repeated underestimates of hardware requirements and performance storage needs will keep giving keep going up absolutely and and you know real apps will need storage there are no storage enabled apps on the blockchain these days I think it's a huge huge huge opportunity for everyone. The size of the opportunity is right. It's a lot of fun for us to build it. It's a lot of fun to interact with you guys in this community. Um and and it's a lot of fun to talk about the size of the opportunity for all of you, right? It's that it's not our company, right? It's a decentralized network and you are part of it, right? Okay. Just for fun, my first HDD was 30 megabytes for an Atari ST. Yeah, I even remember different times when my boss uh called me into his his office, right? And we all had eight 8 in floppy discs and then and he said, "Hey, Mr. Bloom, that's how you do it in Germany, right? H Bloom, right? Uh yeah, I can show you something in my office, right? It's it's really the latest tech and it's called a hard disk, right? I've never heard of a hard hard disk because we all had floppy discs, right? And then he showed me into, you know, took me into his office and and there was that there was that hard disk and it was the s the size of a washer of a of a you know, laundry washing machine, right? And and it had three megabytes, right? which was like it was like you know I was struck in awe about three megabytes right yeah awesome so block tech ops uh wow okay I understand this is an investment and roadmap needs to deliver you said previously zandium is pioneering uh zandfam are on board that's what I love to hear yeah inclusive music uh I'm not a techie guy and relying on generous help on the zany discord community to support me through the setup of my pen nodes. And I'm, you know, I'm glad we all don't have to do it. And there's there's guys in the community out there that help you guys. I absolutely love it. I'd love you to create step-by-step education videos so that I can do it. That's a great uh suggestion and that goes the same way for running keynotes, but also developing apps. I think we need a lot more educational u material here. I was trying to do that here on my here on X and on my my videos, but as you see, you know, I I don't even have time to do it the three times a week anymore as I did before. But I'm still doing it once a week and and giving a lot of effort here. But yeah, we want a lot more educational material and we need to figure out how, right? So I will reach out to a few guys also from the community and and talk to the Xanium Foundation about it how we can do that. I think that's vital. That's absolutely key to to growing our community. So um we need a lot of educational materials here. Um, but you know, anyone can do a YouTube channel with, you know, educational videos about anything, right? And I've seen some of you doing that and that's awesome. But it takes consistency, right? If you want to build a channel, you need to post like in the beginning at least three times a week. That's why I did that for about a year or so or two years. And and and just have some consistency there. It's going to be small in the beginning, but you're going to get you're going to get your you're going to find your audience on on YouTube, right? So, and and you're going to reap the rewards, right? Someday you can do you can do uh ads on YouTube. There are people out there that earn a lot. I don't with mine here. Um um it I don't know, maybe it's 150 bucks a month or so. I'm I'm not sure. Um, but that it's mostly because I talk to I use this channel to talk to you and talk to the community. This is not a commercial channel where I'm like, "Oh, here's the next 100x and blah blah blah. If I did that, I could probably make a lot more money on this um on this channel here." Um, but you can do that, right? You can sell merch on your on your YouTube or or ex channel and and and be that educational channel. I would love it. Right. And and uh if you want some kind of help in the beginning to get started um and some grant or stuff from the foundation uh let us know. We we might be able to do that. I I would love to see these initiatives in the community. It would be because frankly Xandium Labs andor Xandium Foundation probably won't be able to do it. We're so busy with all these things here with developing with figuring out the business model for um uh uh for the the AI app and all these type of types of things here, right? So, if that comes from the community and and you need any type of little help, right? We can't give you like a 100,000 seed financing, right? But we can give you a little bit of Tinder in in the beginning, right? So, just reach out to us. Um, rocket red countdown liftoff. Yeah, Elaine. Um, keep your eyes on the prize. Don't sweat the small stuff. Absolutely. Don't fight with life for a penny and lose sight for for the big picture. It's just don't do it, right? So, absolutely awesome. Um, Amina, God's will. It's amazing. Yeah, thank you. Block tech block tech ops again. Um, hot air. You live in the desert, Bernie. I do. Thanks for giving us such a lot of detailed answers. That's how it work. Yeah, thank you. Thank you. Um, John Beats, uh, thanks. I figured it out. Okay, that's great. Um, Block Tech Ops, thanks Bernie. That is now perfectly understood. How one NFT is applied to one P node for the multiplication factor. And that was a great question again. So you are asking all the right questions today. I absolutely love it. And that's one thing that's not in our description, right? It needs to be in there, right? We've discussed it when Anthony was here and and Sean and Bena and we were talking for two weeks. That's that was like last month or something. Uh we were discussing that. Now we need that portal to assign those NFTts to P nodes, but it's not in the document yet. We will be publicizing the Zanium Foundation delegation program real soon and you've seen it. It's already here. Uh, okay. John Beat says, "Lo, and um Allan, if I'm running two P nodes on the DevNet, do I have to buy two more licenses to run?" No, there's no licenses to run it on mainet. Right. So, a great question also an Alan, right? You buy the licenses to run it on DevNet, but you need if if you want stake on mainet on mainet it's all going to be permissionless, right? So you can run it on on mainnet for free if you think you can get enough stake. And then there are some people that think like, oh, I don't need stake from other people because I have like a million Zand myself. I can just stake it to my own P node. You could of course do that, but then you'd have to see running that P node won't then won't pay off for you because if you have a million Z end, you can stake it to other people's pen nodes and get kind of the same rewards, right? Just they they just take a commission, but the commission won't be huge, right? So, in order to really make money off of running your P node, not on your not on your selfstake of the Xand you already have, you need to have other people's money, right? It's like it's like you're a bank and you're offering a savings account, right? And then you say, "Oh, I put my own money in there. I make 5%. I'm profitable now." No, you're not because you could have put that money into other banks savings account and get the same 5%. Right? So you're plus minus zero as a bank. You only make money when other people put their money into your savings account and then you pay them 5% and you you yourself make 7% for some just as an example. That's a little bit high for today's environment at least in the US but you know what I mean right it is you need stake from other people right in order to be profitable. It doesn't help you to stake your own Z. Stake your own Zand, right? You need stake from someplace else. And the one place where you can get millions and millions of stake early on is the Xandium Foundation. The Xandium Foundation will just give you that stake, but only if you run also on DevNet. That's why you need to buy these licenses, right? You need to have those licenses for DevNet. Otherwise, you will not earn money on mainet unless you have a rich friend that will stake a million dollars in Zan to your P node, then you're good. But most people won't. So, you will need other people to stake with you, and it'll take time to find other people to stake with you. And in order to carry you over the initial time, the Xandium Foundation will give you stake on mainet. but only if you run also on DevNet. So that means you need to have that license for DevNet things like that. So that is the whole economic model. So I hope I hope that's clear, right? There's no licenses on mainet. It's a totally decentralized network on mainet, right? It's not some company behind it that requires you to pay a license or something, right? on mainet but there is free stake right from the foundation. the foundation will just give you stake and you want that stake because that makes you profitable, right? And in order to get that stake from the Xanium Foundation, you will need to have nodes on DevNet as well. And if you get these NFTts and buy them early, you get all these boost factors on mainet, right? You buy the license for a DevNet node, but it will qualify you for these boost factors later in mainet. And all the rewards in mainet will be paid out in Saul. The whole storage economy is in Saul. So will be mainet soul. The real hard money that is worth what is it right now as we speak? $210 I believe which has all the liquidity in the world. So you can sell anytime you want without tanking the price. So you will get paid out in soul each and every epoch right for running your P node and you will get more when you when you have the deep south P node license. So that's why you should get one of those or many of those of the 49 that are being sold in the Dutch auction. You want those NFTTS that give you more boost factors and that's how that's how you become profitable and and and take your share in that potential huge income that is out there as a potential pie that we all aim to to to get our share of. Okay. All right. So, yeah, don't need it. That that was the question Alan know there's no licenses for mainet it's it's free and permissionless on mainet but you want these DevNet licenses and you want the DevNet NFP NFTts just in order to get the maximum rewards on mainet right you can do it without anything on mainet but then you have a factor of one and you have no stake from anywhere so you start from zero and you need to get stake from some How are you going to get 10 million Zand in stake that you could get from the foundation? It's going to be tough. So, better get your pen licenses um early because that way you will get the stake from the foundation. Yeah. All right. David Lloyd, please introduce subscriptions for boost factors regardless of auction results. Thank you. Uh, David, haven't heard of you anywhere, I believe, but love your comment. Um, could be liked to liked or linked to percentile ownership of unsold penos if any, but may may require foundation to run pen nodes to anchor trust. Yeah, I think it's a good idea and it wasn't my idea. That was Anony's idea. So, Anthony, if you're watching today, um thanks again for that idea. And um that might actually be great, right, to to uh to have these um these subscriptions here uh to help to help everyone um to uh to get the development funded. And again, you know, for for anyone like it's been two years or so, two and a half years since since we raised the last money, significant money from the community, right? So, we've been focusing on so many things, focusing on listing the token, which took us almost a year, I would say, right? Listing the token, doing the liquid staking, all these types of thing, which in hindsight, maybe we could have just waited, but I'm not sure. It's always good to be listed and to be able to be seen on Coin Gecko and all these types of things. So, um and then and then we've built we've built the solution. We have a fully functional prototype now, but um we need further funding, right? And and it's it's tough for us with the small team to do both development and marketing and fundraising and all these types of things, right? But fact of the matter is um without funds it's not going to work, right? So, and there's always some people ask about the plan B. You know, I'm not really worried about because we're going to find ways anyway, right? Either here or there or whatever. And I I do believe the Dutch auction will go well. Um but if it doesn't, then we will find other ways. All right. Um so then why Metro? So would HDDs aka spinning drives be fine for a P node or a SATA SSD is the minimum? I I would not recommend spinning drives. First of all, you know, they break all the time, right? It's like they work for a year or two years and then they're gone, right? Then your your thing is down. You have to buy a new one and and and they are slow. You have competition from anyone with SSDs. So SSDs, even NVMEs these days are hardly more expensive than SATA. Um, so I would invest in good drives. It's it's like, do you really want to save $30 for having a lot of hassle with it? It's like it it makes no sense, right? Buy good drives. Okay, Zandium Champion. Um, thanks for doing these AMAs, Bernie. Really appreciate this personal approach. Thank you. Yeah, and I love that also. You know, it's so nice to see you all guys here. Flexispy Gaming videos. Thanks Bernie for all explanation and efforts. You're welcome. Uh, Block Tech Ops, everyone here should like your live YouTube now. Absolutely. Here we go. Like it. Subscribe to my channel. Um, leave me comments, right? Even though you've commented here in the in the live comments. I super appreciate that. Also, leave me the comments here down in the description. the more qualified they are, the more that impresses people that find us, right? And they see like, oh, there is discussions there going on. People are asking the right questions. Um, please post it right there on in in the YouTube comments and also on X, right? You can just you can just um type messages in response to this X live stream and watch it on on uh both platforms, by the way. watch it on on YouTube, but also on on X. It all it all ups the counter for views. Um, Elaine, thanks for spending so much time with us tonight. Awesome. Elaine, yes, subscription would be good for the likes of me. Has no clue, but absolutely believe in the Xanium project. Awesome. Um, David Lloyd, uh, also David 983 on Discord and Early Booku NFT owner, you are my life, Bernie, promise to be more visible. Yeah, you know, I'm visible here like each and every week. I hope I hope that's fine. Um, >> promises to be more visible. >> Oh, you promise to be more visible. >> All right. All right. >> Okay. Awesome. Awesome. All right. So, I'm through with everything. It's actually the end of my time here. Also, I think it's 1 hour 45. It's probably kind of a record here. Uh, one of the longest and and I'm happy it turned out that way because I feel like everyone needs to understand the um the economics here of everything. I'm glad you guys asked the right questions here. So, that's awesome. And um what else? And uh next week I will talk about the Xanium Foundation delegation program. Right, we have it in review. You saw the the pre version here. I showed it in this video and um it's going to be out by next year uh publicly and I'm going to take questions on the XFTP Zanium Foundation delegation program because that is so important right for understanding the economics on why is it actually great for you to get one of these 49 P nodes now and why is it great for you to have these NFTTS and those boost factors and everything The Xandium Foundation delegation program is key to that, right? Because with all the mainet rewards and the stowing, there is that factor of stake in there. And if you don't have stake, you know, you can have anything like pabytes of storage and everything, but if you multiply it by zero when you have no stake, it's going to be zero, right? So, you need to get stake from other people. I hope you all understand why just staking your own Xand won't take you anywhere, right? Because you can earn yield on your own Xand anyway. You don't have to run a P node for that, right? But if you want return on running that P node, you need to convince other people to stake their Xand with you, right? And thank God there's the Xandium Foundation out there. they will stake a lot of Xand, seven figures Zand with your P node and the foundation doesn't even lose money for that. They they're only staking, right? And um and yeah, so that's how it's uh how it's supposed to be. Um any other questions? Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Like, comment, and follow. And um yeah, thanks so much for all the engagement today. See you next week about the delegation program. Catch you guys later. Peace.