URL: https://www.youtube.com/live/Rr_qkx9tczw?si=UAsLSJmNuP-X7OG-
TITLE: Ep 385: Xandeum Community Member LIVE
================================================================================

Hey, hey, hey, hey everyone. Blockchain Bernie here. This is episode 385 and we are starting something new. I have a community member here uh someone that you know is working with with Sandium supporting the whole the whole community and um it's Berm and it will be all about him today. So um and we will do like like an interview and you know Bram will be talking most of the time. We do have the uh the live uh chat on. So if you guys want to ask any questions live or anything like that, please do so. Uh I will see uh the messages here and uh Doi is there. Yeah. Hey Zandium fam. And um yeah, let's get uh let's get started with uh with Bram. Uh just uh you know, introduce yourself, who you are. Yeah. Hey, hi Barney. Hi everyone. Uh so my name is Bikram. I uh live in the UK at the moment and uh I I'm I'm pretty much interested in um blockchain technology and um the future of this technology. Um I have been uh doing a bit of study for a while and um wanted myself to kind of get involved in in in the technology itself and um and I'm also like I'm quite interested in investing in uh future technologies and stuff and uh yeah I was a part of a community called investment mastery and from there I got to know about uh Zenium and yeah I loved it. I loved like Bernie uh and I started following him. I started following his YouTube channel and uh to be honest uh I liked uh liked the way he kind of uh teaches blockchain and um I've been following him for a while and I loved and I've learned a lot and enhanced my knowledge about uh what's going on with the web 3 world and yeah it has it has been uh a great like uh right till now with with uh Zantium and hope to see uh is getting bigger and more people coming in. Yeah. Awesome. Thanks. Thanks for introducing yourself, Bram. Uh you know, I saw um that maybe the volume of your mic when it comes through the internet here. Might have been a little bit too high in the beginning. Um I hope everyone could understand you, but I turned it down now a little bit on my end. It was just a setting on my end. So, but now uh we should be good. If someone wants to give me feedback here in the live chat, let me know if it was okay with the volume or if it is okay now. And um yeah, always glad to have these community members here. And I keep saying like we have the best community in the world. I really love how engaged you guys all are and and uh especially on our our discord and everything. So yeah, and just let me ask you a few questions. So when when did you find us initi and by the way big shout out to that investment mastery you mentioned that name I understand it's kind of an investment club it's headquartered in the UK but they are all over Europe I believe in Sweden in Germany uh in the Netherlands they have a big followership and you know many of these guys came um uh came into our community so that was awesome I already did an interview with Dennis who is one of the I believe co-founders of of investment mastery and um glad that we have that that that club there. Yeah. So uh back to you Vikram. So you mentioned you found us through investment mastery but when was that approximately? Yes. Uh so um uh they kind of invest in uh startups like new startups and like where there is uh a good uh opportunity in a evolving technology. I mean this basically do investments in startups um and uh and blockchain especially they are very like into like kind of investing in new technologies like AI and blockchain and personally I was also very interested to get involved with the technology. I did a degree in financial technology and I was uh kind of um uh you know finding ways to get involved in in in some project maybe startup or something like that. So it was last year I got to know and I have a background in like it so I'm I'm quite um quite kind of um I know a lot of stuff with database as databases and all and um when I saw Zandia like it's just that uh like I found like this is I I would love it. There was no doubt about it. This this is this coming up with something which I've done and I know I'm familiar and I kind of knew that this going to be like that's my belief actually. it's going to be big and um uh the concept of the world computer right like I I've like kind of understood it back in 2020 when I started investing in um cryptos uh but I started with um like everyone um bitcoin and ethereum I understood the concept of ethereum then Solana came in and um yeah I started but I was very busy doing stuff other stuff at that time and I couldn't get myself involved in a uh especially in in a in a like uh how how how the current things are going on and everything. So um when I my intention joint investment mastery was to actually learn more of investing but I then found Zendium and I loved it more I mean I loved it actually to be honest and yeah I just saw and it just so much resonated with me and I I found the vision your vision especially I I have a few questions for you as well. Okay. uh to be so uh kind of uh you know um yeah I mean it's uh when you said about the Cambrian explosion and I I went through the white paper and everything and I just loved it. I I saw something like it's really going to I mean we don't know obviously nobody knows what's going to happen in the future but the vision like um uh your vision of like how things can change how can it get better how can people own their data own their privacy this just like kind of I loved it and I wanted to be a part of it uh so just I started joining and um uh and trying to help like or support whatever in whatever ways I can. Uh so that's how it just happened last year and and started getting more and more involved that's in the audience and and I I've uh seen a lot of and uh by doing that I'm getting to learn a lot about like what's going on with the web 3 and how things will be shaping up in the future. I'm getting to learn all it's just I just love doing that. So yeah, and I just uh yeah, got myself involved uh like I bought a pode as well, set it up, right? I think I was one of the first first users and stuff and I just love the concept and uh this the the potential of um the the the scaling potential it has and how it can help people and how it can recentralize a lot of stuff and uh give power back to people. So redistribute a lot of wealth as well. So I like uh like all of these. So yeah, that's all. Awesome. My journey. It's not No, it's been a long time. It's just been a year. Maybe less than a year. Like 10 time. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's great. Yeah. Yeah. And um and then you mentioned uh you bought a pode also. So um that's great. And maybe you can tell us a little bit about like what what what convinced you there and why why did you want to get one? But also before that um if you're comfortable um tell us a little bit more about yourself, what you're doing, what's your education, what's your your main job and stuff like that. Um whatever you're comfortable sharing of course, right? So yeah, that's yeah. So I um so I've been working in uh um so London from 2015. So I was with a firm called Accenture and then um I after working there for around five six year I um I was trying to uh learn something new uh because I was working with u uh my clients were like um uh basically in the telecom sector and I've been uh working to set up the database and uh uh you know um doing like reporting and everything but uh I wanted to uh learn something new what's what's uh the future like AI and blockchain and stuff. So that's how and then I uh got a degree I uh with University of Bristol. Uh so I learned fintech in there like financial technology and uh a bit of uh that's how like I um kind of got to learn more about the technology as well uh blockchain how it is shaping up and uh right now I'm working with the university uh and um yeah um though my work is not exactly related it's my work primarily on the ERP side but I'm I'm I love actually uh this thing as well. So yeah, so I just got myself involved here and uh yeah, just trying to learn as much as I can and also support the technology and its future and basically what convinced me to buy P node was like I understand uh what it can do actually how it can help people how it can shape up the future of the web web actually and it's because I understand those things and a lot a basic element I as you also say a basic element which is still missing and I don't know why why is the case is the storage thing right the storage is not available for web 3 so how does it scale up how new application come uh come about in uh in in web 3 uh so there got to be something Solana is the fastest uh like blockchain we know as of today but there is no way to store data to create decentralized app and scale it like you know make data intensive applications and even AI is still evolving right so it's like um it's a good intersection where uh Zandium is where I found and I wanted to be a part of that. I wanted to be a part of something which I truly believe can shape uh a lot of things for web 3 and I I truly believe like it has a great great potential and I just didn't want to miss that opportunity to part of something good. Uh so yeah that's how I I I just got involved myself here and yeah and I also really wanted to know what what was your uh like how you had that vision what was like and what is that like that keeps you kind of going actually it's it's a hard a lot of hard work I can I can uh see that the way your releases are it's so much packed right it's it's a lot of hard work and you really have to be very kind of uh you know your vision has to be very strong to keep going so Yeah. Yeah. I just wanted to know like how how what keeps you going actually. Yeah. Yeah. Well, it's mostly of course the community. It's so great to to have you all here and you know, if I if I were to stop or something, there are so many great people like you and like all the others that are here in the live chat right now that that you know that that count on me, right? And uh and that's for one, but also how did I get the idea? It it just resonated with me and I read something about and I think I mentioned it before. I mentioned something about ikyu. All right. So ikyu is a Japanese word and they have this kind of four four different dimensions, right? And it's like you can see what you're doing in your life and what are you spending spending your time with, right? And and it needs to be good in four dimensions, right? It needs to be something you're good at, right? Because yeah, if you're not good at it, maybe find something else where you're good at it, right? And and it needs to be something that um that you love that that you love doing and and that honestly brings you joy and fun. Um but it also needs to be something that the world needs, right? though it needs to be in sync with kind of the natural evolution of the world and it needs to further God's will so to say and the and the universe's you know pre pre uh aligned path and and also it needs to be something where people are willing to pay for and where I can make a living off of right because somehow um I need to get some food every day for myself and my family right So, so those are the four things and you know I really find myself there like having found that eeky guy right I and I just told it a few days ago to my wife and also uh to Verena who's right here who who is my daughter by the way for the ones who don't know it yet and and I told them like you know what what would I be doing if if you know if I had all the you know if money wasn't a question or anything, right? And it kind of isn't, right? You know, I' I've been doing my own thing since 1999, right? It's not like I have to give up a job from someone or something like that, right? And and and what else would I be working on, right? I really feel like um you know, with the technology that's behind it, it's something I'm good at. It's something I've been doing since I was 13 years old. uh programming close to the hardware. I've always been like you know I I I've never been you know that much fascinated only with application and seeing some some some user interfaces or something. I've always been fascinated in working close to the hardware, right? And making some foundational thing that then will be used by many others who bring it to the to the end user, right? And that's kind of a rare um thing. Many people are more like they want to work close to the end user and give them something rather than being kind of at the infrastructure. But that's something that resonate happens to resonate with me. Um to to build something where many people can build apps on and then all of these apps can reach so many people. Um it it's kind of that multiplier effect and yeah I just like that and it resonates with me and and I think the world needs it. I think there's a real gap. Um, blockchain is here for decentralization and and if we have decentralization only on on code and and on these accounts and can only do these simplified DeFi apps that we all see then well that doesn't decentralize all the web and and all the successful web 2 apps that we have and and I think the world needs it. I think it's in sync with with how the world is evolving. It's a natural expansion of of history and and it's good for humanity and um yeah that's what that's what keeps me going there. Right. Yeah. Right. Yeah. So so back to um back to your view on things. Right. So if you had a wish now, what could Xandium as a team and that's Xandium Labs and Foundation and myself and the other team members that you know I if you had a wish what we could do differently or where where we could add something in order to serve the community better uh what would it be? And then also and and also let me combine it with the other question. What could the community do from your point of view? Right. You're just one person, but what could the community as a whole do to to to serve the project better? Right. Right. Um I uh having seen the uh the road map uh I I I kind of think like um it's already quite um um quite fast, right? So things have been um going very fast and uh I I know that soon we going to have like um the the first app uh Zenipedia I believe right? Um I I I think at that point when it first comes it would be a very good idea to kind of um I mean because then people can really see uh what decentralization is capable of right to uh to get this idea spread. I myself would do that like I I'll spread the idea as far as I can uh through social media and telling about my friends but people still like I think lack that um that um what I can see or maybe you can see also like uh I I I just know that it's going to be like uh something very good but uh a lot of people really don't see at this point of time. So uh I think the spreading the message is something which is um whatever way uh we can uh or the community can that would be a great thing spreading the message about P node like how they can participate um uh you know uh to help uh the project uh I myself will also be spreading uh spreading the uh the idea of of PO what it really does And demonstration of how the Zandipedia world or uh uh uh other decentralization decentralized application if um Zandium is building to really demonstrate give a demonstration to everyone in the community that would be a very great idea to really kind of uh grasp the you know what can happen in in the future and what really people how people can also contribute uh by the way of developing applications uh as well in their uh and uh participate uh in few projects uh with Zantium also so I think that's something uh I think that's coming as well right but I think that's uh yeah just like spreading the message I believe at this point of time that's uh that's something I would be interested and I would like help other people also uh kind of spread it. So yeah, that that would be a good answer. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So a a very very high priority for us now is getting the documentation done for the Munich release for developers so that they see how can I use the storage layer to actually um build apps. um that's like super high priority and we just had the last things the last um touches with with the dev team this morning. Um, so that will come out really really soon and uh then we can use that to spread the word, right? And then and then there's the Munich release in itself and we're still discussing will there be some sort of demo with the Munich release but I think like you know it has been such an amount of work to build that Munich release which has all the functionality right I can only repeat it as everything's working there right just in a prototype status so um let's push that out to the world and not further delay it to build some demo or something like that, right? Um because the the the Wikipedia demo is coming anyway. Maybe we still do this this binary guessing game that we talked about in the green paper, similar to a phone app called the Ainator. Um don't know if some of you are familiar with that. It it used to be quite a successful app. Um and and I think we called it I know it live or something. So yeah, so we're absolutely aligned there, right? It there has to be more and more that we can show off. Um we we all need to transition very soon now to finding developers, right? More so than just finding people that are interested in in innovative projects and stuff and glad to have people like you Bram who are just like that persona, right? like the early followers that that understand the vision and are like trailblazers and things like that. But, you know, right now we need a transition to priority number one, finding developers that want to build on it, right? And and us also building our demo apps so that we can show that off. And yeah, totally agreed. Okay. So, should we We're like 23 minutes in. Um, let's just check a little bit here the uh the live uh chat. Maybe there's stuff in there that you can also answer. Uh, Berron. Um, we have Michael here. We have I love Xand Nicolo is here. Nicolo is helping so many people setting up their keynotes, right? because yes we have a deadline now and I think we need to have a deadline right and a deadline without consequences is not a deadline right so the consequence might be hey you know you forfeit your keynote even though you paid for it um and of course we don't want that to happen for anyone and we don't want that to happen if it's so difficult to set it up and I'm so grateful we have a few community members including Nicolo who's helping everyone right so if you're watching ing this here, you have trouble setting up your penote because you need to set it up first and then you can onboard it with the onboarding form, right? You need that ID that you only get when you set it up um to enter it in the onboarding form. But we have, you know, you can always if you're stuck, just open a ticket on Discord. There is an open support ticket button there. You can just do that and you have it. and otherwise reach out to those helpful community members like for example Nicolo um who is who is here in in the audience today as well. Okay. Uh we have Mike Iboo there. I've see you a lot. Uh we have Brad there. Awesome. Uh we have Michael also. Peter. Peter from X. Thank you for being sending messages on X here also. Uh doi both audience are okay audios are okay Allan good to see you again here see you more more often here again or probably I've always seen you often right and my uh love the transparency thank you uh Frank with digital energy thank you Frank and then Dr. Alburn. Any news on airdrop 2? You know, the news is still the same. It's like we need to do one step after the other right now. Uh we got a little bit a few days more delay through my through my sickness and then I flew to New York for 2 three days for the uh Salana um accelerate event. So, um, but it's all it's all moving along and we're just doing the, um, the Xan staking rewards. Need to finish those and then and then send out the rest of airdrop one and then do airdrop 2. I think we still have a chance that we can do it in the next one or two weeks. So, thanks for reminding us for airdrop 2. Um Sasha Kman that reads German here. The cool man. No. So and then Guy Gosselin. Yeah. All also see you so many times. Cornell coming from IM also. So so many people coming from investment mastery. It's really great. And then Mike Iuba again. What really happened to the remaining airrop number one rewards distribution? As you said of course it's not cancelled. Thanks for uh thanks for reminding me uh Mike. It's just that before we do that, we want to fix the error that we had with the Zen staking rewards, right? And that turned out to be a little bit more complicated than we hoped for, but I have the latest cheat now by the team uh for final review. And then we're doing that. I mean, Brad is in the call right now. Hopefully, we can do that in the weekend. And then that's history. And then we can do adrop number two. Uh excuse me. Then we can do the rest of adduprop number one, which will also be relatively quick. And yeah, maybe we can get it all done next week. So thanks for reminding us and setting these priorities here. Uh then are the 170 plus enrolled pen nodes working okay right now? Uh what to expect in June? Um yeah, I think they are working okay. Uh some of them still need to get onboarded. So they have it set up. It shows under C nodes, but they don't show up in in the onboarding form yet. I think we still only have 135 there. Um so the remaining like 35 should onboard also uh as soon as possible. And it's easy for them because they're already set up, right? All they need to do is copy that that ID um and put it all in. Then we have Elaine here. Um in the Sana Accelerate meeting, what meeting? There were tons of meetings, right? I was part of two meetings there. Um there was a a validator meeting on Tuesday evening and then there was a marinade meeting on Wednesday. So those were the two that I was attending and I just wanted to scale down on these events, right? Because we were on on Breakpoint and then you know you end up traveling so much and we need to build our software and stuff like that. I got a special invitation then for that validator event and and I flew there on really short notice. It cost me a fortune to to do the booking on short notice and and the meetings were, you know, it was not a for me it was basically like see some guys again and and we have some guys that could be really early adopters and also on the RPC side. So it was good to see their faces again and you know re recap, you know, um put me into their their memory again. Um so yeah it was good but I don't know doi did you mean any special other accelerate meeting or did you just mean the accelerate conference in general? Uh not sure. So I was on these two meetings that were part of accelerate. Then guy open ticket but do not answer DM scammers. Thank you for that. We just recently had another one. It came through um through investment mastery and someone lost I don't know this and that $7,000 I believe. You know, be suspicious on anyone that sends you direct messages just because they're shown as Brad at Zanium. It's mostly Brad that they are um impersonating, right? So, not not me that often. Um yeah, but sorry. Sorry, Bunny. So I was just telling like uh yeah there was one guy uh who you who impersonated as you as well and he was pinging me to join something. So yeah, I really thought it was you at some point, but yeah, but I just understood when he was asking. Yeah. Yeah, it's it's probably everyone falls for it the first time, right? And then after that you kind of learn from it and hopefully the first time is, you know, not that high of a loss or something, right? So um yeah, and you know, it happens all the time. Yeah, turn off DMs. So that's one of the that's one of the things that can that can help. All right. Good. So yeah, I love this this thing here. I hope more and more of the the community uh will will come up and show up and you know I for for others there you don't have to speak perfect English or anything like that. You know for me English is not my first language and not sure maybe it's not for you either Bram and yeah and and so many others and and you know nobody's perfect blockchain is a new technologies Salana is a new chain we we're all learning uh still and you know I would love to just have someone else um uh next time maybe Elaine maybe Doi if you if you want to um just come up into into the next meeting and uh we can make that a series where you know community members just introduce themselves and and connect with me and connect with you know the community through the live chat. Okay, so there's one last message here from Doi. Yeah, I was referring for the whole event like a special booth for Xandium. Yeah, you know, I mentioned that like a couple of months ago where I said like, well, should we go to New York and then we go to Abu Dhabi and then we go here and then we go there and you know, I've been doing that, excuse me, sorry, for so many for so many times and in the end I felt like we need to focus and maybe go there when we have something when the Wikipedia is there when the first few apps are there then it's probably more rewarding and still networking is important. So that what that's why I made that that quick trip on short notice and it was just me. It wasn't the the whole uh the whole team. Excuse me. I'm still a little bit sick so I have that thing in my throat here. Yeah. Anyway, um that's why we did that and the doi always available. Um, so thank you. Let's do it next week, don't you? Hm. Can you do next uh Thursday? Um, yeah, let's do it then. And, um, for today, any closing remarks um, Bram, uh, yeah, I mean it was lovely to have, uh, like conversation like with you directly in YouTube. loved it and I hope like Zenium uh grows very very big and solves a lot of problems as well and yeah thanks thanks for uh connecting and yeah it's it's been a great uh meeting