URL: https://youtu.be/QD3r8h_OSKk?si=zLueNm7R_g9YY5lL
TITLE: Ep 379: Behind the Scenes - BlockchainBernie's Daily Routine as CEO of Xandeum Labs
================================================================================

Hey, hey, hey everyone. It's Blockchain Bernie here. Episode 378. A day in my life. How does a day of the CEO of Xandium Labs actually look like? I go through everything you and and I've been asked by so many people, hey Bernie, how does your day look like? Right? Do you have a morning routine? Um how often do you interact with people? How often are you working on your own? How can you concentrate? All these type of things. I'll dive into all of that uh today in this little video and in the end I'll reveal to you what keeps me going, right? Why am I doing all that and and how can I sustain this kind of intense effort um that it it undeniably is right? So that's your payoff at the end. So keep watching and yeah, let's dive into it. So I usually get up at about 6:30. I'm I'm not really a natural morning guy, you know. I'm more like a late guy, but I'm nevertheless forcing myself to get up early, especially during these days where we're building that storage layer, right? It's exciting times and you know, I started doing that maybe December last year, building the storage layer and we did a lot of stuff before that. We had the other idea with our own L1 and you know the fundraising in the beginning and the note sales and that's all a lot of effort and then we had advisors on board so we had to get those advisors and they said list the token and um do the liquid staking the storage enabled liquid staking which is great and we've done that for most of 2024 but then starting December 2024 we're building that storage layer And we have a big big focus on that one. And I'm super happy we have the architecture. That was basically my personal work here, right? Figuring out what we really want to do and why we want to do that. And we came up with that architecture of 30 different releases that we're building in six different eras. And I'm super super he super super happy that we have that now. And now we're building it, right? And each of these 30 releases is a challenge of its own, right? This is hard. This is hard hard problems to solve really integrating a scalable storage layer into blockchain. If it was that easy, people would have done it before, right? Cuz it's kind of obvious that we need it. And there that's a a demand for that because blockchain was built to decentralize stuff and to make us less dependent on centralized entities and um and we can't in so many respects, right? There is that missing link which is a scalable storage layer. Building that is really something that's fun to me. And I get up at 6:30. I have my morning routine. I mostly do meditation in the morning. Um, I had used to have my Headspace app. I switched to another app called Inside Timer. So, if you uh want more information on that, just let me know down in the comments. Um, by the way, liking this video, subscribing, it's good for you because you're not missing out on any of my new content. Um, and it's also good for you because it earns you point, right? Go points. Go to points.zand.network network and you can get your points just for um liking and commenting and all that kind of stuff. But I'm really interested of course in getting your views right. What do you use for meditation? Do you think meditation is a great thing or have you tried it and then stopped? I haven't met anyone in my life that said, you know, I tried meditating for three months or so and then I figured out it's crap and I just stopped it because I found out it's not good. I I haven't met a single person in my life, right? It's once you start it, it is great stuff and it helps me a lot to stay focused um to fend off all the different things that come into my life all day, right? And all potential threats and stuff like that. It it really helps me um stay focused um and which is awesome, right? I do usually like five minutes of Dolingo in the morning uh language learning in my case Mandarin Chinese for um several reasons and um do that like 5 minutes in the morning and then 10 to 15 minutes or so at some point in the evening. Um that's also part of my my daily routine. And then at 700 a.m. um I have the uh the so-called uh dev meeting, right? not the so-called dev. I had the meeting with the development team, three developers plus myself. I'm almost part of the development team and and I really feel like how I love that. Um if I'm there and solving some development problems and figuring out the the architecture, figuring out how other people's software works, right? Because the the Salana validator, it's other people's software. It's a highly complex piece of software and we need to understand how it works where we can kind of u um dock on to um to get you know tightly integrated into Salana into the Salana chain. Um that's highly exciting stuff. Um and uh and yeah we're building that with the three devs that I have. They are in India and Sri Lanka. They are absolutely awesome. um Abby, Isha and Kavine. So we meet with them every morning at 7 a.m. Um we have Verena helping us managing all the tasks and you know editing the tasks as we go through the meeting. um uh checking everyone, hey, what's the status of this task and that task and that is super helpful, right? So, um that's great. Sometimes we have Brad uh in there, sometimes Anthony, but recently mostly since it's 7:00 a.m. in the morning, it's the three devs plus Vaina plus myself. And these meetings sometimes they go for 15 minutes or so, those are the smaller ones. If we know everything and we just discussed everything already the day before and then it's just like executing on it, then these meetings are fast. Um but oftent times they take quite a while and sometimes we work on on tough problems together for hours basically um in in those dev calls and then and then if if we work on tough problems you know we'll have meetings in the evening again right so it's like around 11:00 a.m. or so my time here in Vegas. They go to bed around midnight their time. But then they get up again and then it's like 700 p.m. or so my time. So my evenings are super packed also with meetings with technical meetings either with the devs or with Brad if it's about operating um all these things, right? And how do the the how do the the the vnodes work with the software that we're building and and how does it work with the P node operators and is it easy for them and how does it work with the setup guides and stuff like that. um discussing that with Brad a lot and um but also doing a lot of a lot of uh developer uh talk in the in the nights and um yeah and between that you know there is a substantial amount of marketing right even though we're focusing right now on development and we all agree on that by the way so all kind of the management team and everyone that's here we all agree three, what is the most the highest priority for the next 12 months, 18 months or so, and especially for the next 3 to 6 months where we're building our Munich and then our Frankfurt release, the highest priority by far is development and getting the product ready, right? But still at the same time, we need to get the word out. We need to grow our community. We need to have more people that engage with us and we're constantly brainstorming what can we do to grow it. We have Eric also in the marketing team. So we have Sean Verena the kind of the core team of the marketing. Then we have Eric working out of Germany um mostly doing the Google looker studio. So measuring everything that we all our marketing efforts and consolidating them into reports. But Eric's also managing some of our advertising campaigns and we're just starting a new advertising campaign on X uh what where Eric is is working on. Um but then Sean Verena and I kind of the core marketing team that's also working great here and Sean is new on the team and but I've been knowing him for almost 10 years. I've been knowing Brad for a long time. I've been knowing Verena for a very long time. So, it's really nice that we have a team here that um has some familiarity with each other and and how people tick, right? And what their personality is because make no mistake, the main reason why many of startups fail is because just people don't get along anymore, right? And it happens all the time and and you know, everyone knows that, right? and and and you know that's the reason divorce rates are what they are and at some point people just get along don't don't get along anymore. Um but it's the very same thing in business right and it can go so fast and especially when the going gets tough right and in in and businesses in crisis and stuff like that and I know that from from my past businesses as well. So I'm happy we have this team here now. uh everyone's really focused on getting things done and and working on this big vision here of uh of adding that storage layer to smart contracts and um yeah so my mornings and my evenings are mostly full with development right now right coordinating with the devs helping them if they have questions hey Bernie how should I implement this or that I'll do the research on what's the best uh way forward for us, right? To give them the input that they need to to build their stuff and um but I'm also developing myself at times, right? It's like a certain components that I do. Um most of the beginnings of the modifications to the Salana validator uh was my personal work and then Abby took over a little bit and did some modifications there as well. And um but that really really resonates with me. I I love software development that's close to the machine level, you know, really really low-level systems programming. That's what I've been doing since I was 13 years old. Um, and yeah, so most of the time, by the way, I work from home. My YouTube studio here that you see here is is in my home. Uh we do have an office uh here in here in Vegas um at the Weiwork in Summerland. So Summerland is kind of a modern part of town like a business uh upscale businessy type of of of thing and uh we have that office there at a great location and great offices but you know mostly I just work from home here. It's a larger office here where the YouTube studio is in. Um, and Verena is working uh from this home office here together with me. So, we have our desks uh side by side. Um, she's, you know, coming in the morning. She lives in Vegas, so she's she's arriving here and working in that home office. And recently with Sean on the team, who is local to Vegas as well, um, we're meeting up like one or two times a week at least. Um and um it it is great to have that local team and and meet up in the office there. If we're in the office most of the time we eat lunch there then have great lunch offerings um in the in the u vicinity there of that office. Um um but otherwise for work from home yeah we eat lunch at home. I eat my breakfast at about 10:00 am. So I try to do that 168 intermittent fasting thing. Not only try to do it, I mostly do that, right? So no eating before 10 and no eating after 6:00 p.m. And that's, you know, that that's nice for me. It works out for me. And I love eating at home. I have all my ingredients that I love. I you know I and Hika is a very she's a good chef right and she by the way she has learned that right so so she's a really an an a chef uh or was one back in in um in the day and um yeah so that's what I'm doing most of the time it gets really really late in the nights um as Well, and you know, I'm aiming for getting an hour or maybe two hopefully some and sometimes I succeed in that around midday where I work a little bit less. I have my pool here in Vegas which is nice depending on the time of the year um taking a swim in there. Um and um yeah um do that. But recently it's been tough, right? So it it it it almost feels like I'm back to like seven days a week, 16 hour days that I used to have when I uh built Node Store in the very beginning of the early uh Xandium and its predecessor Bku days. Uh it was months and months of of literally 16 hours each and every day, seven days a week. And um here sometimes that happens um as well. Something's happening with my screen here behind me. But anyway, um so Oh, Raina just closed her laptop that way. Okay. And um yeah, so that's that's a typical day um here and lots of administration stuff also and and you know accounting meetings with uh with a meal and um and it's a surprising workload in administrative stuff, right? with just moving funds around and making sure that everything's funded and you know from this bucket we can pay that which will become due this and then and everything and I I keep control over that right I keep control over my finances be it like bank accounts or be it um be it uh crypto wallets um I also keep control of all the upgrade authorities of all the important smart contracts until we hand hand it over to the DAO. So, but while we're still building it or while it's internal tools that we control, um I have all these these wallets on my own, it's just my way of keeping control of things, right? But it does take some time, right? And it might be different once we really grow when we're like a larger company and there's a team and then we have like these three out of five signature thing for everything or five out of seven and we already have that with the foundation and the Xandium Foundation. It's all managed by a five out of seven uh multisig wallet. Um but yeah, I'm also helping there getting all these uh proposals out and and getting them approved by five out of seven and stuff like that. It's it's quite some administrative overhead that I'm mostly doing around midday early uh afternoon things like that. And yeah, it's going like that each and every day. And you know, I try to get one day of low work and I'm mostly succeeding on that, right? It it's tough to have a full day of no work at all. Right? And I've heard so many people saying, you know, if you have at least one day with like zero work, it can be so beneficial. It might be, but I haven't succeeded on that during those times where it's really, really tough, right? And it's been like that with building Xandium. It's that you build something that makes a difference in the world. It is always tough, right? So, but oftent times I get like one day a week where I do like three four hours of work maybe and otherwise just you know go somewhere with my wife and um um you know check something out mostly in kind of the countryside which is the desert here right and there's lake me and there's the red rocks and there is um there is valley of fire and all these uh type of things here and there's there's stuff to to explore everywhere. But also we like to go to the strip where there's entertainment and there's so many like concerts or um you know standup comedy and and and um people that are known from from from TV and everything. I went to Bill Maher like a year ago or something. uh watch them live and and um it's really fun to have the um entertainment options here in in Las Vegas and it's fun to see the city develop as one of the fast growing fastest growing cities um in the US and um and yeah we try to do that you know one one day a week at least um yeah but recently with you know building the storage layer plus managing all the marketing because at the same time we need to spread the word right and now it's onboarding Sean he is new but he is really really promising so I love how things are working um you've heard him recently on on our X spaces so he was really part of it he will be part of more videos that we're doing he was already in some of those videos and he brings great ideas right he's an entrepreneur himself, right? He's only um you know in his late 20s, but for a decade he's been running his own business, his own e-commerce business. So, he knows what it means to advertise, to be profitable with advertising, to be present on social media and do it all in a way that it's efficient and stuff like that. Um, I love his entrepreneurial spirit, right? That's really, really great. And he's local, right? So, we meet with him often um here in Vegas. And um yeah, I usually go to bed like yeah, between 10 and 11 I would say. Um and sometimes it's tough to uh tough to wind down, right? because I do then tend to, you know, read the press a little bit, watch some YouTube videos on what's going on in the world and and and about, you know, investments and stocks and crypto and everything and um yeah, sometimes that keeps me up longer than I want to, right? I think we all know that. Um yeah, so that's a typical day in my life. um you know the the the you might ask like well where is um like uh workouts or stuff like that recently you know I'd have to say I tried but with all this kind of stuff here what stays is swimming in my pool right so I've been doing that um in the summer here since I have my pool uh 30 minutes of swimming right and my Apple watch tells me that's like 500 move calories, right? I'm not sure if it's true, but Apple Watch is telling me that if I work, if I walk 30 minutes, it's only like 170 or something, but I swim 30 minutes, it's giving and the water is relatively cold, right? If I heat it up, I don't heat it up above 76, 77 uh Fahrenheit. And um okay, in the height of the summer it's it's warmer just by nature by by the sun, but usually um it it's relatively cool. So that might contribute to burning calories, right? Because we need to be at 102 or so, which is body temperature. Um I hope I can I hope that's correct in Fahrenheit. I grew up in Germany, so for me it's 37 um degrees Celsius, which is body temperature. And so the water is only 24, right? So you need to heat the body while swimming there. It might really be that it's more calories that are being burned uh while swimming. Um but I stopped now during the winter. I did it in one winter here, but it costs a little bit to heat it all up. It's a small pool though, so I really can heat it up also in the winter. If I heat it up in the winter, it's it's going to be like about $20 a day to heat up the pool uh with in in gas, like natural gas. Um, and I sometimes do that. Um, yeah, but now, you know, the warm season is now really starting here. It's going to go fast here, right? And it's April and soon it's going to be really hot. So, I won't even have to heat the pool. And I expect to uh do that again, 30 minutes in my pool each and every day. And out of the two years that I've been living here in Vegas, probably I've been doing that for, you know, net like 50% of the time, right? So, um I love that that swimming. We also have a hot tub there. Sometimes I do that in the in the evenings like after work. Uh I go into the hot tub um outside there under the stars and you know looking at my palm trees which is really nice. Uh but most of the time I take my phone and chat with Brad and chat with some of the companies that we work with and with our market maker which is located in Singapore. So they have these other time zones and XYZ, right? So um always a lot to do. Um yeah and those are the the the typical days. um mostly working with the devs, developing my on my own um contributing to development, figuring out how can I do these context switches, right? Because oftent times when I do development and we have to really solve problems, I need to focus on that for many hours, but then I have appointments and I need to talk about, you know, with suppliers and with with our marketing companies and with our marketing team and XYZ. It is tough to juggle all that. And why am I doing all that? I promised you that in the beginning as your your payoff here. I do that because I'm working on something I really want to do. I feel like um you know I I have and and the team here has the capacity to actually build the storage layer. It's not many people in the world that can do that. Trust me, it's a really really hard problem to solve. But it also has that potential, right? It has the potential to be really, really huge. It has the potential to get a really huge market cap at some point in time because we can reach literally um the next billion people here. We can make blockchain accessible to everyone through enabling these apps, these storage enabled apps. And all real apps need storage as they do without blockchain. Also on blockchain, every real app needs a lot of storage. and it needs, you know, random access storage and it needs to overwrite and delete stuff and things like that. And it needs to be integrated into smart contracts. And that is um a a really really big and bold vision. So we can touch the lives of billions of people. We can have a trillion dollar in market cap as a potential here, right? And there's so many endeavors that don't have that potential, right? that are only in smaller markets and stuff like that. But we have this potential here. Um, which is awesome. Um, which keeps me going and um, keeps me up at night at at at some point and um, and keeps me going through the tough times, right? Keeps me going when the going gets tough, how the how the song goes, right? And without having that that goal and it's not only the size like the the the financial size of it, it's the boldness of the vision to help humanity each and every individual to be more self-determined and be less dependent on centralized authorities, right? And all started with with um um Bitcoin making ourselves independent of centralized authorities with regards to money. And then came Ethereum being independent of centralized authorities with regards to code. But it's code only. There is no storage attached to that code, right? Integrated into that code. And now with Xandium, we're building that storage layer. So we have smart contracts plus the storage layer that we need to build all these apps. So with Xandium there will be apps that make us that that are independent of centralized authorities right and we can all these web two apps that have their millions hundreds of millions some of them billions of users that are all on web two today. They are not decentralized because they just cannot be decentralized because the underlying technology isn't there. And we're changing that here. And that's something that I really want to get done. I feel humanity has deserved to get into that new level of being more selfdetermined for each and every individual. um and rather than you know having to play by the rules of the Googles and the Facebooks and the X's of this world, right? So doing that is something that that really really keeps me going. The community is keeping me going. So um you guys are just awesome. Don't forget to like this video, to subscribe to my channel, and leave me comments here about what do you think about this day? How how do my days look? Could I optimize somewhere? How do your days look like? Uh do you have some other kind of magic bullet for work life balance? Right? I really personally don't like that work life balance because I only have one life, right? and work is just part of it, right? Um and um work life balance is like it almost implies like oh work is something that I don't like to do. It's not my life, right? It is your life, right? It's part of your life and um yeah. So yeah, those are my days and you know it it it changes from from time to time and different different phases of my my life. But you know I shared it with you here. If there's anything you'd like to know which I haven't covered here, you know uh don't feel ashamed to ask me uh in the comments and just let me know how you do your days. Uh where should I look like? um other like idols that um that you like and and want to emulate uh with with doing your days. And otherwise, thanks so much for watching, guys. Catch you later. Peace.