URL: https://youtu.be/WOyD7bxCNMM
TITLE: Ep 379: Behind the Scenes - BlockchainBernie's Daily Routine as CEO of Xandeum Labs
================================================================================

Hey, hey, hey, hey everyone. Blockchain Bernie here with my latest video. Exciting innovations are going on on the Salana chain as we speak. There is a scalable storage layer up to exabytes and more on the Solana chain for Salana smart contracts that they can access directly out of their programs and it is gaining momentum like crazy. So in this little video I'm going to tell you who's going to be building who is already building on the Xandium storage layer. what type of decentralized apps, storage enabled decentralized apps we can expect because people are already building innovative stuff on top of the Xandium storage layer. So, I go through all of these guys that I am currently talking to and I'll make some predictions on what type of apps will actually profit the most off of that scalable storage layer. So stay tuned, watch this video to the end so that you will understand what is the next big thing. What are the next players that are going to build their Salana apps on a scalable storage layer. Let's dive right into it. So, I'm Bernie Bloom, CEO and founder of Xandium Labs and um I'm talking to and Xandium Labs is contributing code to the software that's operated by the Xandium DAO and the Xandium Foundation. And what is going on guys? It's like we the Xandium layer storage layer is going to build in errors, right? The first era is the deep south era that is almost done. So we are approaching a new era which is the south era. The first release in the south era is going to be the Munich release. The Munich release is going to be a fully functional prototype. So it has all the functionality, all the API calls and even though the Munich release is about to be released in a few weeks from now, but it's not there yet. There are so many projects that are building on Salana that need that storage layer like crazy and they are asking us when can we get started when will the docs be there the documentation the docs will be there before Munich so it's going to be only a few weeks 2 3 weeks or so until the docs are there so these apps can start building right and there are so many that badly want this and everyone one wants to be one of the first projects to run on the Xandium storage layer. So they are going to get listed on the Xandium page and they get additional publicity and all that stuff. So we love that. And by the way, there will be incentives. There will be challenges of what we what Zambium wants to build wants to see built, right? And there will be bounties for that and likely on the super team earn platform, right? So watch out for earn. superteam.fun. We're going to have bounties out there Xandium bounties for, you know, getting stuff built. But hey, let's dive into it. So, first of all, it's that decentralized Wikipedia thing that we were thinking of building as our demo app that we built ourselves, but there are other projects that want to build that also, right? That see that. And I'm in contact with people that used to be working for Anza for the Sana Labs successor, right, that want to build that decentralized Wikipedia. Uh, which is awesome. They are waiting for the storage layer. They kind of sitting on the edge of their seats to to to get the storage layer to build versions of the decentralized Wikipedia. So let's see if it's going to be ours, if it's going to be theirs, if it's going to be some joint venture. Uh we will see. But there will be that decentralized Wikipedia as kind of the flagship demo app of what you can do with a scalable storage layer on top of Salana. Then um there is that and I pitched that a little bit and that's not our project. That's something that they came up with and I you know bear with me. I cannot give you names at this time, right? That's because none of these projects are fixed. We don't know will they really do it? Will they have the funding? Will, you know, will they be approved or stuff like that. So, I can't give you the names will be there probably at the time of the Munich release, right? Like maybe four or five weeks from now or something like that and you will see all the names on the Xandim.network network uh platform or a and website, right? This is just a preview cuz I'm talking to these people and you know, I'm super pumped that there are so many guys that actually want to build and so many teams that want to build on that storage layer, right? The next one is that LLM truth checker and that's a whole it stands for a whole family of projects, right? If you really think about it, an LLM bias checker, truth checker, um, all these type of things, and that's a big thing right now, right? Everyone's worried, are these LLMs biased? Are these LLMs even compromised by stateowned governments at, you know, by by by state actors? um like the Chinese government for example in the case of deepse deepseek or by other governments and we want to test that and that's a tough problem to solve because we want to have accountability we want to have LLM accountability they are evading accountability today wherever they can none of these LLMs is offering an option to digitally sign their respons they just don't do it. So, how can we prove that Gro 3 or Chat GPT 40 or whatever the version might be um already came up with came up with this and that answer right that was in there. We can't really prove it. They are not accountable. But with this software, we make them accountable. We um store this stuff in the scalable storage layer and we have a DAO that operates that whole thing, right? So the DAO will send the queries. The DAO has to be trusted. There is people in there that have bought tokens of that LLM fact checker um platform, right? So they have money on the line to do that. Um that also means that um they send the requests to those LLM checkers and we get the accountability that way and we can prove you know by money that that could be lost. Um all with blockchain and decentralized technology we make those LLMs accountable and then there can be reports out of that out of that vast data set that we have. Think about it. All these things like at that time stamp we sent this request to this LLM and it gave this response. We want to store all that so that we can give reports right just like that there's going to be a vast amount of reports on what they react to and when and stuff like that. And that is a big big application of the Xanium storage layer. That could be a whole family of apps, right? that um you know make probes like like send requests to some systems um proven by by blockchain and then get the responses also proven and collect these vast data sets of requests and responses and then offer um analytics on that. So that can be both it can be for LLMs but it can be basically for anything right. So yeah, that's exciting stuff. And then we have those gaming companies, you know, all of the gaming companies I talked to, they would die for that storage layer. And I have one very concrete that really wants it. And it's like a little bit of um um yeah, kind of like bedding a game that they are doing and they want to be among the first to to adopt that storage layer. So there are so many people out there. We are going to have bounties on Super Team E and we will start in the um the south era with the Munich release with a bunch of devs that are already building on it before it's really there. So I think that is super super exciting. It is going to change the landscape on Salana forever because suddenly we are completing that computer model right so to the founder of of Salana recently tweeted so Anatoli Yakaveno for the ones who don't know him he recently tweeted Salana is computer and then someone replied like world computer totally and then to say well drop the world it's clearer right it's like Facebook originally was called the Facebook and then someone said just call it Facebook it's clear right so to is like and he's right in that right don't call it world computer don't call it a computer salana is a computer a decentralized computer right so and but the computer is only partial it only has the CPU and which is the the smart contracts and it has the RAM which is the Salana accounts but it doesn't have a disk Right. So I responded to that tweet and I said like, "Hey, you know, it's only a partial computer. It doesn't have the disc. So we here at Xanium are building that." And he responded with ship ship ship. So three three ship um emojis, right? Which is awesome. So he's rooting for us also um to get that thing done. And we couldn't be more excited. But for now, thanks so much for watching, guys. I hope this was uh informative for you. Please hit that like button. Don't forget to subscribe to my channel and catch you guys later. Peace.