URL: https://youtu.be/m8bko7-cFkQ
TITLE: Ep 405: Director of Xandeum Foundation Interview
================================================================================

Hey, hey, hey everyone. Blockchain Bernie here. My latest episode and this one, this is a really big one. It is about the Titan NFT for the Xandium network. And the Titan NFT gives you an 11x boost in your storage income running the Xandium storage network. And with your provider node, the P node, you can 11x. That is a 1,000% boost. A 1,00% boost. It's never coming back, guys. It's never coming back. And we had the Dutch auction. So, Zandium, the storage layer on Salana. So, now when the product is ready and we're almost there, right? Then there will be um there will be the launch and we have storage fees being paid by apps being built on the Xandium storage layer where Zandium is building their own apps. But there are a lot of people um waiting in line and and waiting for the product to be launched on mainet and um we hope we all hope it's still going to still going to happen this year. There will be the airdrop 2 by the way guys airdrop 2. We've been asked so many times about that and you know you know just very few days after you watch this video you will have the announcement on when the airdrop 2 is going to happen and it's going to happen soon. So so many things are happening at the Xandium network but um here's an important thing today and that is the Titan NFT. So, if you already have a Titan NFT, you will know everything that I'm saying right now. Um, but watch it anyway, right? So, for the ones that don't have a Titan NFT right now, right? Titan NFTTS are for people that already have a P node, right? And Xandium did their Dutch auction um their Dutch auction some time ago. And here you see all these different NFTts that there were available in the Dutch auction about a month ago, right? So there's the dragon NFT um uh with a boost factor of four. There's a coyote NFT with a boost factor of 2.5. There's a rabbit one with 1.5. There's a cricket one with one. And you know, um the Titan man, look at that 11x. I mean, 11x, guys. 11x. So, that means a 1,000% boost. And we now do a time travel because in the second hour of the Dutch auction last month, you would have been able to buy a Titan NFT for 4,410 USDC plus 441,000 Zand, right? That was the cheapest price. You know, if if you bought in in hour zero here, right, in the first hour of the Dutch auction, it was even more expensive. And we sold some even in this hour here, right? Um, but most of the Titans of course went away here in the second hour uh for that better price, right? And now we are offering for everyone that does have a P node but does not have a Titan NFT. We're offering them to get the Titan NFT. We're offering you like time travel back to when the Dutch auction uh has uh taken place. Um, so you can time travel back here and uh and you can still get the Titan NFT for the same price that we had. It's a time travel, right? You'll see it here. Um, it's 4,41 4,410 USDC plus. And now it's only 46,000 Zen. So why is it only 406,000 Zen? Well, there's a very simple explanation. This is for people that already have a P node but they don't have the Titan NFT, right? If you already have a P node, you've already bought that P node. And they were on sale in the very early days for 35,000 Zand. So we credit you will give you that full credit of 35,000 Zen because you already have the P node and you paid 35,000 for it, right? So now it's only 406,000, not the full 441,000. So you get that full credit here. And um and uh 46,000 plus the 4,410 USDC. So now I've already connected here to that Titan store. It's just Titan store.zandium.network and the link is down in the description. Right. So that's the Titan store and uh you see it here and it ends on November 5th 1600 UTC, right? So that's like around 161700 uh European time depending on where in Europe you are and um it's like in the morning in the US on November 5th. So that's the end of that Titan sale here, right? It's an offer, right? We just thought like for those people that already have P nodes and they don't have a corresponding NFT. So if you bought them in the Dutch auction, that means you um you already have them. You already have the P node and the NFT cuz that's what you bought in the Dutch auction, right? But every NFT can only be used for one P node. So if you let's say you'd had three from the early P node sale and then you bought how many ever in the Dutch auction, the three that you used to buy back then, they are not NFT boosted at all. Right? So that's why we're offering you buying that Titan NFT, right? It's that Titan sale here in the Titan store. And look at how beautiful that Titan looks here, right? Uh yeah, I love it. And and that's how it appears in in your wallet when you get that NFT. It's so nicely animated here, right? And it's still a deep south Arab node. So all these deep south Arab nodes have a factor just an error factor of 16. So the ones that bought early are being rewarded. that factor goes down to 11 in the south era, right? So, this is the last sale here in in the deep south era. And um and there are still deep south podes. Um you you know, if you have deep south pods already that are not NFT boosted, you can buy the Titan NFT here. You can enter any number uh you want to buy here. Um, and I'll just do a test buy right here, uh, live in this video. Not really live. The video is pre-recorded, but you know, for me, I'm sitting here in front of my camera and, uh, just doing it live. So, um, let's see. And, and some people thought like this is like this this background is like a like a, you know, AI background or something. It's all real, right? This is real. This is real. And the background is also real, right? So, um, anyway, you need to agree to the terms of service. You can see the some terms of service here. Can scroll through them. Um, so if you want to buy one and let me see if I have enough in my wallet here, I have 5,000 45,575. Okay. So, I have just enough here. Um, oh, they show it here in my wallet. Yeah. So, this is what I need. 4,410. Um, I have enough balance. Oh, I don't have enough Xand here, man. How is that? So, let me just get enough Xand here, uh, in my wallet. Um, so, let me do that as we speak. Huh? Um, let's see. Let's see. Let's see. Let's see. Yeah. Let's see how how much was I missing? Um like 200 and something thousand. Let's say 300,000. Oh gosh. So, let's send that over. Boom. And get back to the Titan store here. Connect my wallet again. All right. So no, this is not the right wallet here. Me connect to different wallets. Okay, here we go. That's also not the correct wallet, man. I have too many wallets on here. Okay, so here's my wallet. I have enough balance now. I agree to the terms and now let's see if the Titan store works. That's the very first, you know, cuz we just put it live. Uh we just put it live today and when you watch this video, it's going to be live for you. It's titanstore.zandm.network and you can get these man. It's like I that that that 11x boost, guys. I mean, it's for the storage income, right? It's not for some some little rewards that we're giving here for a few months or something like that. It is for the future Xandium storage layer when it's live on mainet and it's making making reward. It's generating storage fees, right? It's a revenue. The Xandium network is a revenuegenerating network, right? Apps will be paying these storage fees and it will be our own apps in the beginning, but it will also be apps that are being built by other people and we're making crazy progress on the development um and you will hear more about that um in the next few days and weeks. But you know having an 11x boost factor you know if if let's say on any given day we're you know the Xandium network creates like 100 solen fees right and let's say with your P node you might be entitled to like 1% of the fees so that would be one sol for you but if you have it 11x boosted with everything else being equal that'll be 11 for that day, right? So, think about that. I mean, it's like it it is it is a crazy way of the Xandium Foundation to reward our early supporters. It's just as it is. We're in the South era. There's so many eras here and it's six eras that we're building in. The deep south is the first one. The South era is the second one. And yeah, I you know, I I just can't be excited enough. And you see now live that I'm buying them myself, right? And while I'm the founder of Xandium Labs here in the US and develop the software and everything, Xandium Foundation is a different thing. I don't own it. Nobody owns it. It's a so-called orphaned entity. So, it's real money that I'm paying out of my own pocket here to um buy that Titan NFT because I mean it's a no-brainer. It's an 11x, right? Yeah. But anyway, um no financial advice here, of course. This is not a solicitation to to buy any tokens or anything. It's just a little bit of uh of background information uh for you guys and um always do your own research. Okay, so now let's go back to the Titan store and let's see if it works because as I said, we just put it live today. We haven't been able to test it live here on mainnet. So, it's going to be the first transaction here and the first Titan NFT uh being sold. So, I'll click on purchase one Titan NFT. Uh, and it says here it wants to pay me 4,41 USDC, 46,000 Xan. And I click okay and confirm. And now, oh wow, congrats. You just purchased one Titan NFT. You will receive your NFT in your wallet in the next few days. Man, that's awesome. Got it. Here's the transaction. Um Um, I can click on that. Uh, do that. So, you'll have proof that you've purchased it. You can join our Discord here, which you should do if you haven't done so um already. And um yeah, let me switch to Souls Scan here. So, here's the transaction where I successfully bought it. So, everything's working. That's awesome. So, Titan Store is live, guys. you just watched users witness it with, you know, and I'll I'll just leave all the all the stuff in there where I didn't have enough Xand in my wallet and I had to had to transfer it. So, um I'll just leave it in here in here for full authenticity and um yeah, man, that's that's the news for today. It's only open for 13 days, so that should be enough for you to move funds if you need to move funds from A to B. um in order to do it. But if you have any P node, you should you should get that Titan NFT. If you don't have a P node and you want to have a POE, reach out to us on our Discord. Um so we can make sure you can get P node sales are closed right now, right? The next POE sales will come in the South era, right? at, you know, not as great conditions as we had in the Deep South era, right? Because they'll only have an 11x era boost compared to the 16x era boost that we have in Deep South. Um, but if you consider buying a Titan NFD and you don't have a P node, reach out to us on Discord, just on the general channel. I look there um often and uh and just ask what you can do. So we might offer you a special deal um to get another P node. But you know what we want is people that are engaged that will actually be running their P node that will be updating them and and all these things. So, we'll do a little bit of a check on you um whether you're a P node owner that we actually want to see um on our network because it turned out only half of them actually run their P node, right? And and and the others have paid for it, but they're not running it. So, they will not not get the rewards. They will not get the storage income or anything. Um which is kind of sad. So, but if you're honestly interested in running a P node, um the next P node say will come. So, just stay tuned, sign up for for our discord, um so that you will get the news when the South Arab nodes will be on sale. Um, but if this last, you know, Titan offer interests you and and you know, these two factors, they multiply, by the way. It's a 16x era boost times the 11x NFT boost of the Titan NFT, which results in a 176x, right? So we do that be to reward our early supporters that you know pay like a significant amount that helps us finance the further development and everything we'll have to do here with our team and finance the whole um the whole Xandium team right and if you do that at the early stage before the launch of the product because there before we have live apps on mainet and everything we want to reward you for that that's a great a huge incentive to get these Titan NFTs, right? And if you already have P nodes, you can just buy that Titan NFT. But if you just watched this video and you don't have a P node yet, but you still you're still interested in that Titan NFD, do reach out to us on Discord cuz we might offer you a special deal to get still to still get that P node um if it's if it's bundled with that with that Titan NFT. That would be because we're still looking for great P node operators, right? that actually and you can find anything on the P nodes and on the storage income that which we call stoink right s o i n c storage income sto so with that stoink go to xandium.network/toink network/toink and the link is in the description. Um, if you do that, you find everything about the rewards that you will be entitled to with your keynote later on when we're live on mainet, right? And study that. It is not it's not something I can say in like a minute in this video. It it's a you know there there's some some math to it, but it's all explained on that on that site. zandium.networks uh link in the description. Also, if you like content like this, I have a quick ask. Please do hit that like button. It really helps us. It gives you points when you like this video when you leave a comment and everything. It gives you points for the um for the airdrop. Airrop number one was a big success. It really was a big success. Airrop number two is coming soon and I promise my next video next week will be about airrop number two and I will announce a date when it's going to come and I will also give you some more information on how it's going to work uh what it's all for. So, um, watch out for my next video next week if you're interested in that airdrop number two. And, um, thanks so much for watching, guys. Uh, help spread the word. Tell everyone about this exciting, uh, Zandium project. Thanks for Thanks so much for watching. Catch you later. Peace.