URL: https://youtu.be/BssgxtIcY9M
TITLE: Ep 401: Xandeum Dutch Auction Success - 52 Deep South pNodes Sold, $200K Raised
================================================================================

Hey, hey, hey, hey. Blockchain Bernie here with my latest episode, version 0.5 of the Xandium storage layer. And I'm also going to give you an outlook on Xandium version 0.6. And there are big things coming. We are on 0.4 right now. And in case you don't know what Zandium is, so Xandium is the storage layer for the Sana blockchain. We have unlimited scalability in storage in a file system manner. So you can overwrite things just right from your smart contracts and you can store exabytes and exabytes of data and we are basically developing it in public. So that's what you'll see here and we have that little uh spreadsheet here. We're currently on version um 0.4. Um this guy here, let me mark it uh 0.4 um reconstructibility from pods. So that's live and we're just doing the documentation at this point in time so that you guys can build on it and then I'll give you an outlook here on um version 0.5. It's almost done. It's going to be coming out real soon. And then the big thing redundancy in 0.6. So what does that all mean? So for the stat release um we have simple metrics. So for every one of you that are running a P node and if you don't have a P node it's the provider nodes that provide the storage. You can get those. Just go to zandium.network and find out about it. And if you don't have a P node yet, you should get one definitely. So all these P nodes, they will be monitored in version 0.5 the Engle stat release. So we will keep um metrics whether you're online, whether you respond to heartbeat requests, whether you respond to um actual payload requests. So we have that first demo app out there, FS onchain. So it's a little bit like a Dropbox uh style thing where you can store things in the Xandium storage layer and um and the stat release will measure all that and will pay the rewards. So if you have a P node you will get two things. You will get rewards in the beginning. These rewards are just to compensate you for the effort to run that P node. But the actual rewards, the actual payback you will get with the stoink. Stoink is the storage income sink. And that storage income will come once we're live on mainet. And Xandium is very much planning to go live on mainet with release 0.6 six the stoutgart release or maybe shortly shortly after but the goal is definitely to go live on mainet this year. So and um I already told you what's new in in uh version 0.5. So that is here the uh the basic pnode rewards and also what what is going to be part of uh version 0.5 is the owner manager model right so there will be pnode owners that buy licenses for these p nodes and there will be managers that do the technical stuff for them and there will be a marketplace of managers anyone can sign up as a manager for a cut of the future storage income that's uh coming there. So that's all going to be part of of Engulstat version 0.5. It's going to be great and it's almost done. It's like you know development has more or less completed. Uh Zand the Xandium team is basically testing it but the big thing that's coming is the 0.6 six and that is redundancy right you see that here so a redundancy means that um several p nodes will be storing the same data and all our data is going to be paged into pages so those are like like you can think of it like chunks of a fixed size uh right now that size is 1 megabyte so all the data that's stored in the Xanium file system is going to be chunked into these um pages is B already in these releases that we're live now. Um it's being chunked into these pages right now only one P node stores one page but with the 0.6 that's going to be a gamecher and that's going to prepare us from kind of the working prototype thing that we're in right now into a minimum viable product. the product becomes viable because we have this redundancy which introduces also fault tolerance right so that means if one of these p nodes fails we will automatically fail over to another one and how much is the redundancy well the cool thing about zandium is each app can select their own redundancy so it could be like a redundancy of three or it could be five or could be seven or it could be 43 if you want so or any number right it it these were just random numbers um so let's say an app says I want redundancy five then all the data that the app stores will automatically be duplicated into five different and will be stored onto five different podes and then the Xandium network will monitor these P nodes and if one of them fails or just gives the wrong data or something like that, it'll be swapped out. It'll be replaced with another one. The data is there. It can be reconstructed from the other four through what's called erasure codes. So these erasure codes are are a well-known thing in in data processing. So you can restore basically some of you might know it from RAID drives, right? So if you have like a RAID one with like three drives then you know if one fails you can reconstruct the data from the other two right and you can basically live replace the failing drive and um and that'll be the case with um um with Zandium v0.6 six the the very very allimportant SUAR release we will have that at as well right so we have that redundancy and the fault tolerance and there's two types of fault tolerance and that's important to understand there is for one what's called the crash fault tolerance so that's what we're going to do first right so that means if there's a crash or if one one P node is just not responding or not working anymore or just you know sending random results that are not the real results then it's going to be replaced with a different pode right so we're just going to be finding out of and we have like about 150 pods that are really live right now um we've sold 350 licenses but there must be 250 guys that um kind of haven't um haven't really updated their keynote or haven't, you know, started it or stuff like that. So, um, so that's a a normal ratio, right? It's like it's a little bit like books, right? I I've heard stats where it says like 95% of books that are being bought are never being read, right? They just lie somewhere in the shelf uh at your home and and you'll never read them, right? I think it's like 95 even 98% I've heard that somewhere, right? And everyone knows what I'm talking about, right? It it happens all the time. We buy so much stuff in life that we never use. And it also happens with pnodes, right? So, not everyone has done that. If you're watching this, you've bought a pode, get it going. And and there are people out there in the community. Um, and do that with the Discord, right? There's the Xandium Discord. You can sign up for the Xandium Discord on Xandium.network. in the top right corner you see that little um community sign up thing and you can sign up for the discord and people help you setting it up. You don't have to do it yourself. And in the stat release we have that owner manager model. So if you're just a pnode owner you will find a manager there that offers their services for a cut in future storage income. Right? Good. So that's how it all works. And then if you say like okay we sell licenses and stuff is that really decentralized right well on mainnet it is decentralized but you will just get a big big boost of your rewards on mainnet if you've if you also run a devet/testnet p node right um so it's just a kind of subsidy from zandium foundation um to give you these rewards and And in order to maximize these rewards and the future storage income, um, you have the opportunity to buy these PNO licenses for DevNet, right? Even in DevNet, it's permissionless. You can run, you know, any P node on DevNet without permission. And it's just if you bought that license, you will get the monthly rewards right now from Zandium Foundation and um and you will later get the storage income boosted, right? So yes, it all is permissionless, but getting these licenses just help you be profitable, be one of the leading podes there. And by the way, we will have um a little project out there. We want people to build penote analytics platforms that will be possible with the current 0.4 herinberg release. Um there is an RPC interface for those podes and anyone can build these apps. Um and and that'll be awesome. So you will see all the pnodes with their history and with their rewards that are being you know monitored in the 0.5. You will see all that. So there are so so many things going on but with that 0.6 six with the Stoutgart release which will give us redundancy and crash fall tolerance right there's also Byzantine fall tolerance so that is being tolerant against um malicious players right crash fall tolerance is only if it crashes but you can safely assume there's no malicious players of course this is going to be a public storage blockchain built on a public blockchain named Salana so there might be malicious players We need to be resistant against malicious players. So we need to have the Byzantine fall tolerance and that's going to come in the later releases when we implement all these um BS BFT Byzantine fall tolerance features but those are not really necessary for the MVP right those are not necessary to go live on mainet but redundancy is we need the redundancy and we need the crash fall tolerance because it's just for an MVP it's notcept acceptable that if one P node fails then you know there was data that was only on that one P node and then it's lost forever that's that's not acceptable right so we need to have that crash fall tolerance it is going to be part of the stoutgart release we are all super excited and we are enter the development team is entering into that stoodgart mode right now um um doing finalizing all the design steps for the redundancy and getting it imple implemented and um everything's super exciting. Um by the way, next week you're likely going to see me from the Cayman Islands. As you know, we have a foundation in the Cayman Islands that's running the platform. It's a very common thing um in crypto to to work with these uh offshore entities. The Cayman Islands is one of the most reputable ones. They are super super strict on everything compliance and stuff like that. Um we have Anthony there as the new director of the Xandium Foundation in the Cayman Islands. Um he is already there. He is you know looking for a place to to stay and to live there. So, and um yeah, you will next week uh next Thursday or maybe out of the ordinary before that I'm flying out, you know, when when you watch this video, I'm already on the plane, right? I'm pre-recording this one year one day earlier. Um so, it's it's uh Wednesday, uh October 1st right now. When you see it, it's going to be October 2nd. So, I'm going to be on the plane as you watch this, right? And then maybe the few days after we do a little bit of videos um just uh just out of the ordinary and um and you will see our facilities there and you will see what's going on and what are the plans. And of course the big big plans is our our big demo app that will actually show that this storage layer has a reason to be it has a reason to exist and that AI accountability app that I've been teasing for a long time. It's going to be revealed soon and that is going to be a great thing in itself, but it also is going to bring traffic and real storage load onto the Xandium storage layer. So, I couldn't be more excited um about this uh AI accountability app and um yeah, things are progressing. So, this was my my update here. Uh lots of things going on. Uh 0.4 will be published. It is done uh technically and so many pen nodes have already upgraded. Uh but it needs some documentation finalized and then and then it needs that description of the penote analytics platform so that you can build that app and and become kind of the leading penote analytics um platform. And uh after that we have Ingalstad with the uh owner manager model and with um the metrics um so the the rewards will be paid automatically um uh by some some program that we just crank once a month. So no manual uh penode rewards payouts anymore. So that's going to be great. And then and then Stoutgart 0.6 6 that is the big release and with 0.6 maybe we need 7.8 we'll see how much of the redundancy and the fall tolerance we can actually get into that 0.6 six. But sometime around that we will be ready for mainet and we will be ready for um launching the storage layer on on Solana mainet and we will be ready to launch the demo app uh that we're going to be unveiling soon. I just keep teasing it because we're in stealth mode right now, right? But it's going to be out there real soon. Um so I'm excited. Um, maybe you're excited as well. Uh, thanks so much for watching, guys. Catch you later. Peace.